When Mary Lennox was sent to Misselthwaite Manor to live with her uncle
everybody said she was the most disagreeable-looking child ever seen. It
was true, too. She had a little thin face and a little thin body, thin
light hair and a sour expression. Her hair was yellow, and her face was
yellow because she had been born in India and had always been ill in one
way or another. Her father had held a position under the English
Government and had always been busy and ill himself, and her mother had
been a great beauty who cared only to go to parties and amuse herself
with gay people. She had not wanted a little girl at all, and when Mary
was born she handed her over to the care of an Ayah, who was made to
understand that if she wished to please the Mem Sahib she must keep the
child out of sight as much as possible. So when she was a sickly,
fretful, ugly little baby she was kept out of the way, and when she
became a sickly, fretful, toddling thing she was kept out of the way
also. She never remembered seeing familiarly anything but the dark faces
of her Ayah and the other native servants, and as they always obeyed her
and gave her her own way in everything, because the Mem Sahib would be
angry if she was disturbed by her crying, by the time she was six years
old she was as tyrannical and selfish a little pig as ever lived. The
young English governess who came to teach her to read and write disliked
her so much that she gave up her place in three months, and when other
governesses came to try to fill it they always went away in a shorter
time than the first one. So if Mary had not chosen to really want to
know how to read books she would never have learned her letters at all.

One frightfully hot morning, when she was about nine years old, she
awakened feeling very cross, and she became crosser still when she saw
that the servant who stood by her bedside was not her Ayah.

"Why did you come?" she said to the strange woman. "I will not let you
stay. Send my Ayah to me."

The woman looked frightened, but she only stammered that the Ayah could
not come and when Mary threw herself into a passion and beat and kicked
her, she looked only more frightened and repeated that it was not
possible for the Ayah to come to Missie Sahib.

There was something mysterious in the air that morning. Nothing was done
in its regular order and several of the native servants seemed missing,
while those whom Mary saw slunk or hurried about with ashy and scared
faces. But no one would tell her anything and her Ayah did not come. She
was actually left alone as the morning went on, and at last she wandered
out into the garden and began to play by herself under a tree near the
veranda. She pretended that she was making a flower-bed, and she stuck
big scarlet hibiscus blossoms into little heaps of earth, all the time
growing more and more angry and muttering to herself the things she
would say and the names she would call Saidie when she returned.

"Pig! Pig! Daughter of Pigs!" she said, because to call a native a pig
is the worst insult of all.

She was grinding her teeth and saying this over and over again when she
heard her mother come out on the veranda with some one. She was with a
fair young man and they stood talking together in low strange voices.
Mary knew the fair young man who looked like a boy. She had heard that
he was a very young officer who had just come from England. The child
stared at him, but she stared most at her mother. She always did this
when she had a chance to see her, because the Mem Sahib--Mary used to
call her that oftener than anything else--was such a tall, slim, pretty
person and wore such lovely clothes. Her hair was like curly silk and
she had a delicate little nose which seemed to be disdaining things, and
she had large laughing eyes. All her clothes were thin and floating, and
Mary said they were "full of lace." They looked fuller of lace than ever
this morning, but her eyes were not laughing at all. They were large and
scared and lifted imploringly to the fair boy officer's face.

"Is it so very bad? Oh, is it?" Mary heard her say.

"Awfully," the young man answered in a trembling voice. "Awfully, Mrs.
Lennox. You ought to have gone to the hills two weeks ago."

The Mem Sahib wrung her hands.

"Oh, I know I ought!" she cried. "I only stayed to go to that silly
dinner party. What a fool I was!"

At that very moment such a loud sound of wailing broke out from the
servants' quarters that she clutched the young man's arm, and Mary stood
shivering from head to foot. The wailing grew wilder and wilder.

"What is it? What is it?" Mrs. Lennox gasped.

"Some one has died," answered the boy officer. "You did not say it had
broken out among your servants."

"I did not know!" the Mem Sahib cried. "Come with me! Come with me!" and
she turned and ran into the house.

After that appalling things happened, and the mysteriousness of the
morning was explained to Mary. The cholera had broken out in its most
fatal form and people were dying like flies. The Ayah had been taken ill
in the night, and it was because she had just died that the servants had
wailed in the huts. Before the next day three other servants were dead
and others had run away in terror. There was panic on every side, and
dying people in all the bungalows.

During the confusion and bewilderment of the second day Mary hid herself
in the nursery and was forgotten by every one. Nobody thought of her,
nobody wanted her, and strange things happened of which she knew
nothing. Mary alternately cried and slept through the hours. She only
knew that people were ill and that she heard mysterious and frightening
sounds. Once she crept into the dining-room and found it empty, though a
partly finished meal was on the table and chairs and plates looked as
if they had been hastily pushed back when the diners rose suddenly for
some reason. The child ate some fruit and biscuits, and being thirsty
she drank a glass of wine which stood nearly filled. It was sweet, and
she did not know how strong it was. Very soon it made her intensely
drowsy, and she went back to her nursery and shut herself in again,
frightened by cries she heard in the huts and by the hurrying sound of
feet. The wine made her so sleepy that she could scarcely keep her eyes
open and she lay down on her bed and knew nothing more for a long time.

Many things happened during the hours in which she slept so heavily, but
she was not disturbed by the wails and the sound of things being carried
in and out of the bungalow.

When she awakened she lay and stared at the wall. The house was
perfectly still. She had never known it to be so silent before. She
heard neither voices nor footsteps, and wondered if everybody had got
well of the cholera and all the trouble was over. She wondered also who
would take care of her now her Ayah was dead. There would be a new Ayah,
and perhaps she would know some new stories. Mary had been rather tired
of the old ones. She did not cry because her nurse had died. She was not
an affectionate child and had never cared much for any one. The noise
and hurrying about and wailing over the cholera had frightened her, and
she had been angry because no one seemed to remember that she was alive.
Every one was too panic-stricken to think of a little girl no one was
fond of. When people had the cholera it seemed that they remembered
nothing but themselves. But if every one had got well again, surely some
one would remember and come to look for her.

But no one came, and as she lay waiting the house seemed to grow more
and more silent. She heard something rustling on the matting and when
she looked down she saw a little snake gliding along and watching her
with eyes like jewels. She was not frightened, because he was a harmless
little thing who would not hurt her and he seemed in a hurry to get out
of the room. He slipped under the door as she watched him.

"How queer and quiet it is," she said. "It sounds as if there was no one
in the bungalow but me and the snake."

Almost the next minute she heard footsteps in the compound, and then on
the veranda. They were men's footsteps, and the men entered the bungalow
and talked in low voices. No one went to meet or speak to them and they
seemed to open doors and look into rooms.

"What desolation!" she heard one voice say. "That pretty, pretty woman!
I suppose the child, too. I heard there was a child, though no one ever
saw her."

Mary was standing in the middle of the nursery when they opened the door
a few minutes later. She looked an ugly, cross little thing and was
frowning because she was beginning to be hungry and feel disgracefully
neglected. The first man who came in was a large officer she had once
seen talking to her father. He looked tired and troubled, but when he
saw her he was so startled that he almost jumped back.

"Barney!" he cried out. "There is a child here! A child alone! In a
place like this! Mercy on us, who is she!"

"I am Mary Lennox," the little girl said, drawing herself up stiffly.
She thought the man was very rude to call her father's bungalow "A place
like this!" "I fell asleep when every one had the cholera and I have
only just wakened up. Why does nobody come?"

"It is the child no one ever saw!" exclaimed the man, turning to his
companions. "She has actually been forgotten!"

"Why was I forgotten?" Mary said, stamping her foot. "Why does nobody
come?"

The young man whose name was Barney looked at her very sadly. Mary even
thought she saw him wink his eyes as if to wink tears away.

"Poor little kid!" he said. "There is nobody left to come."

It was in that strange and sudden way that Mary found out that she had
neither father nor mother left; that they had died and been carried away
in the night, and that the few native servants who had not died also had
left the house as quickly as they could get out of it, none of them even
remembering that there was a Missie Sahib. That was why the place was so
quiet. It was true that there was no one in the bungalow but herself and
the little rustling snake.

Mary had liked to look at her mother from a distance and she had thought
her very pretty, but as she knew very little of her she could scarcely
have been expected to love her or to miss her very much when she was
gone. She did not miss her at all, in fact, and as she was a
self-absorbed child she gave her entire thought to herself, as she had
always done. If she had been older she would no doubt have been very
anxious at being left alone in the world, but she was very young, and as
she had always been taken care of, she supposed she always would be.
What she thought was that she would like to know if she was going to
nice people, who would be polite to her and give her her own way as her
Ayah and the other native servants had done.

She knew that she was not going to stay at the English clergyman's house
where she was taken at first. She did not want to stay. The English
clergyman was poor and he had five children nearly all the same age and
they wore shabby clothes and were always quarreling and snatching toys
from each other. Mary hated their untidy bungalow and was so
disagreeable to them that after the first day or two nobody would play
with her. By the second day they had given her a nickname which made her
furious.

It was Basil who thought of it first. Basil was a little boy with
impudent blue eyes and a turned-up nose and Mary hated him. She was
playing by herself under a tree, just as she had been playing the day
the cholera broke out. She was making heaps of earth and paths for a
garden and Basil came and stood near to watch her. Presently he got
rather interested and suddenly made a suggestion.

"Why don't you put a heap of stones there and pretend it is a rockery?"
he said. "There in the middle," and he leaned over her to point.

"Go away!" cried Mary. "I don't want boys. Go away!"

For a moment Basil looked angry, and then he began to tease. He was
always teasing his sisters. He danced round and round her and made faces
and sang and laughed.

          "Mistress Mary, quite contrary,
              How does your garden grow?
           With silver bells, and cockle shells,
              And marigolds all in a row."

He sang it until the other children heard and laughed, too; and the
crosser Mary got, the more they sang "Mistress Mary, quite contrary";
and after that as long as she stayed with them they called her "Mistress
Mary Quite Contrary" when they spoke of her to each other, and often
when they spoke to her.

"You are going to be sent home," Basil said to her, "at the end of the
week. And we're glad of it."

"I am glad of it, too," answered Mary. "Where is home?"

"She doesn't know where home is!" said Basil, with seven-year-old scorn.
"It's England, of course. Our grandmama lives there and our sister Mabel
was sent to her last year. You are not going to your grandmama. You have
none. You are going to your uncle. His name is Mr. Archibald Craven."

"I don't know anything about him," snapped Mary.

"I know you don't," Basil answered. "You don't know anything. Girls
never do. I heard father and mother talking about him. He lives in a
great, big, desolate old house in the country and no one goes near him.
He's so cross he won't let them, and they wouldn't come if he would let
them. He's a hunchback, and he's horrid."

"I don't believe you," said Mary; and she turned her back and stuck her
fingers in her ears, because she would not listen any more.

But she thought over it a great deal afterward; and when Mrs. Crawford
told her that night that she was going to sail away to England in a few
days and go to her uncle, Mr. Archibald Craven, who lived at
Misselthwaite Manor, she looked so stony and stubbornly uninterested
that they did not know what to think about her. They tried to be kind to
her, but she only turned her face away when Mrs. Crawford attempted to
kiss her, and held herself stiffly when Mr. Crawford patted her
shoulder.

"She is such a plain child," Mrs. Crawford said pityingly, afterward.
"And her mother was such a pretty creature. She had a very pretty
manner, too, and Mary has the most unattractive ways I ever saw in a
child. The children call her 'Mistress Mary Quite Contrary,' and though
it's naughty of them, one can't help understanding it."

"Perhaps if her mother had carried her pretty face and her pretty
manners oftener into the nursery Mary might have learned some pretty
ways too. It is very sad, now the poor beautiful thing is gone, to
remember that many people never even knew that she had a child at all."

"I believe she scarcely ever looked at her," sighed Mrs. Crawford.
"When her Ayah was dead there was no one to give a thought to the little
thing. Think of the servants running away and leaving her all alone in
that deserted bungalow. Colonel McGrew said he nearly jumped out of his
skin when he opened the door and found her standing by herself in the
middle of the room."

Mary made the long voyage to England under the care of an officer's
wife, who was taking her children to leave them in a boarding-school.
She was very much absorbed in her own little boy and girl, and was
rather glad to hand the child over to the woman Mr. Archibald Craven
sent to meet her, in London. The woman was his housekeeper at
Misselthwaite Manor, and her name was Mrs. Medlock. She was a stout
woman, with very red cheeks and sharp black eyes. She wore a very purple
dress, a black silk mantle with jet fringe on it and a black bonnet with
purple velvet flowers which stuck up and trembled when she moved her
head. Mary did not like her at all, but as she very seldom liked people
there was nothing remarkable in that; besides which it was very evident
Mrs. Medlock did not think much of her.

"My word! she's a plain little piece of goods!" she said. "And we'd
heard that her mother was a beauty. She hasn't handed much of it down,
has she, ma'am?"

"Perhaps she will improve as she grows older," the officer's wife said
good-naturedly. "If she were not so sallow and had a nicer expression,
her features are rather good. Children alter so much."

"She'll have to alter a good deal," answered Mrs. Medlock. "And there's
nothing likely to improve children at Misselthwaite--if you ask me!"

They thought Mary was not listening because she was standing a little
apart from them at the window of the private hotel they had gone to. She
was watching the passing buses and cabs, and people, but she heard quite
well and was made very curious about her uncle and the place he lived
in. What sort of a place was it, and what would he be like? What was a
hunchback? She had never seen one. Perhaps there were none in India.

Since she had been living in other people's houses and had had no Ayah,
she had begun to feel lonely and to think queer thoughts which were new
to her. She had begun to wonder why she had never seemed to belong to
any one even when her father and mother had been alive. Other children
seemed to belong to their fathers and mothers, but she had never seemed
to really be any one's little girl. She had had servants, and food and
clothes, but no one had taken any notice of her. She did not know that
this was because she was a disagreeable child; but then, of course, she
did not know she was disagreeable. She often thought that other people
were, but she did not know that she was so herself.

She thought Mrs. Medlock the most disagreeable person she had ever seen,
with her common, highly colored face and her common fine bonnet. When
the next day they set out on their journey to Yorkshire, she walked
through the station to the railway carriage with her head up and trying
to keep as far away from her as she could, because she did not want to
seem to belong to her. It would have made her very angry to think people
imagined she was her little girl.

But Mrs. Medlock was not in the least disturbed by her and her thoughts.
She was the kind of woman who would "stand no nonsense from young ones."
At least, that is what she would have said if she had been asked. She
had not wanted to go to London just when her sister Maria's daughter was
going to be married, but she had a comfortable, well paid place as
housekeeper at Misselthwaite Manor and the only way in which she could
keep it was to do at once what Mr. Archibald Craven told her to do. She
never dared even to ask a question.

"Captain Lennox and his wife died of the cholera," Mr. Craven had said
in his short, cold way. "Captain Lennox was my wife's brother and I am
their daughter's guardian. The child is to be brought here. You must go
to London and bring her yourself."

So she packed her small trunk and made the journey.

Mary sat in her corner of the railway carriage and looked plain and
fretful. She had nothing to read or to look at, and she had folded her
thin little black-gloved hands in her lap. Her black dress made her look
yellower than ever, and her limp light hair straggled from under her
black crêpe hat.

"A more marred-looking young one I never saw in my life," Mrs. Medlock
thought. (Marred is a Yorkshire word and means spoiled and pettish.) She
had never seen a child who sat so still without doing anything; and at
last she got tired of watching her and began to talk in a brisk, hard
voice.

"I suppose I may as well tell you something about where you are going
to," she said. "Do you know anything about your uncle?"

"No," said Mary.

"Never heard your father and mother talk about him?"

"No," said Mary frowning. She frowned because she remembered that her
father and mother had never talked to her about anything in particular.
Certainly they had never told her things.

"Humph," muttered Mrs. Medlock, staring at her queer, unresponsive
little face. She did not say any more for a few moments and then she
began again.

"I suppose you might as well be told something--to prepare you. You are
going to a queer place."

Mary said nothing at all, and Mrs. Medlock looked rather discomfited by
her apparent indifference, but, after taking a breath, she went on.

"Not but that it's a grand big place in a gloomy way, and Mr. Craven's
proud of it in his way--and that's gloomy enough, too. The house is six
hundred years old and it's on the edge of the moor, and there's near a
hundred rooms in it, though most of them's shut up and locked. And
there's pictures and fine old furniture and things that's been there for
ages, and there's a big park round it and gardens and trees with
branches trailing to the ground--some of them." She paused and took
another breath. "But there's nothing else," she ended suddenly.

Mary had begun to listen in spite of herself. It all sounded so unlike
India, and anything new rather attracted her. But she did not intend to
look as if she were interested. That was one of her unhappy,
disagreeable ways. So she sat still.

"Well," said Mrs. Medlock. "What do you think of it?"

"Nothing," she answered. "I know nothing about such places."

That made Mrs. Medlock laugh a short sort of laugh.

"Eh!" she said, "but you are like an old woman. Don't you care?"

"It doesn't matter," said Mary, "whether I care or not."

"You are right enough there," said Mrs. Medlock. "It doesn't. What
you're to be kept at Misselthwaite Manor for I don't know, unless
because it's the easiest way. _He's_ not going to trouble himself about
you, that's sure and certain. He never troubles himself about no one."

She stopped herself as if she had just remembered something in time.

"He's got a crooked back," she said. "That set him wrong. He was a sour
young man and got no good of all his money and big place till he was
married."

Mary's eyes turned toward her in spite of her intention not to seem to
care. She had never thought of the hunchback's being married and she was
a trifle surprised. Mrs. Medlock saw this, and as she was a talkative
woman she continued with more interest. This was one way of passing some
of the time, at any rate.

"She was a sweet, pretty thing and he'd have walked the world over to
get her a blade o' grass she wanted. Nobody thought she'd marry him, but
she did, and people said she married him for his money. But she
didn't--she didn't," positively. "When she died--"

Mary gave a little involuntary jump.

"Oh! did she die!" she exclaimed, quite without meaning to. She had just
remembered a French fairy story she had once read called "Riquet à la
Houppe." It had been about a poor hunchback and a beautiful princess and
it had made her suddenly sorry for Mr. Archibald Craven.

"Yes, she died," Mrs. Medlock answered. "And it made him queerer than
ever. He cares about nobody. He won't see people. Most of the time he
goes away, and when he is at Misselthwaite he shuts himself up in the
West Wing and won't let any one but Pitcher see him. Pitcher's an old
fellow, but he took care of him when he was a child and he knows his
ways."

It sounded like something in a book and it did not make Mary feel
cheerful. A house with a hundred rooms, nearly all shut up and with
their doors locked--a house on the edge of a moor--whatsoever a moor
was--sounded dreary. A man with a crooked back who shut himself up also!
She stared out of the window with her lips pinched together, and it
seemed quite natural that the rain should have begun to pour down in
gray slanting lines and splash and stream down the window-panes. If the
pretty wife had been alive she might have made things cheerful by being
something like her own mother and by running in and out and going to
parties as she had done in frocks "full of lace." But she was not there
any more.

"You needn't expect to see him, because ten to one you won't," said Mrs.
Medlock. "And you mustn't expect that there will be people to talk to
you. You'll have to play about and look after yourself. You'll be told
what rooms you can go into and what rooms you're to keep out of. There's
gardens enough. But when you're in the house don't go wandering and
poking about. Mr. Craven won't have it."

"I shall not want to go poking about," said sour little Mary; and just
as suddenly as she had begun to be rather sorry for Mr. Archibald Craven
she began to cease to be sorry and to think he was unpleasant enough to
deserve all that had happened to him.

And she turned her face toward the streaming panes of the window of the
railway carriage and gazed out at the gray rain-storm which looked as if
it would go on forever and ever. She watched it so long and steadily
that the grayness grew heavier and heavier before her eyes and she fell
asleep.

She slept a long time, and when she awakened Mrs. Medlock had bought a
lunchbasket at one of the stations and they had some chicken and cold
beef and bread and butter and some hot tea. The rain seemed to be
streaming down more heavily than ever and everybody in the station wore
wet and glistening waterproofs. The guard lighted the lamps in the
carriage, and Mrs. Medlock cheered up very much over her tea and chicken
and beef. She ate a great deal and afterward fell asleep herself, and
Mary sat and stared at her and watched her fine bonnet slip on one side
until she herself fell asleep once more in the corner of the carriage,
lulled by the splashing of the rain against the windows. It was quite
dark when she awakened again. The train had stopped at a station and
Mrs. Medlock was shaking her.

"You have had a sleep!" she said. "It's time to open your eyes! We're at
Thwaite Station and we've got a long drive before us."

Mary stood up and tried to keep her eyes open while Mrs. Medlock
collected her parcels. The little girl did not offer to help her,
because in India native servants always picked up or carried things and
it seemed quite proper that other people should wait on one.

The station was a small one and nobody but themselves seemed to be
getting out of the train. The station-master spoke to Mrs. Medlock in a
rough, good-natured way, pronouncing his words in a queer broad fashion
which Mary found out afterward was Yorkshire.

"I see tha's got back," he said. "An' tha's browt th' young 'un with
thee."

"Aye, that's her," answered Mrs. Medlock, speaking with a Yorkshire
accent herself and jerking her head over her shoulder toward Mary.
"How's thy Missus?"

"Well enow. Th' carriage is waitin' outside for thee."

A brougham stood on the road before the little outside platform. Mary
saw that it was a smart carriage and that it was a smart footman who
helped her in. His long waterproof coat and the waterproof covering of
his hat were shining and dripping with rain as everything was, the burly
station-master included.

When he shut the door, mounted the box with the coachman, and they drove
off, the little girl found herself seated in a comfortably cushioned
corner, but she was not inclined to go to sleep again. She sat and
looked out of the window, curious to see something of the road over
which she was being driven to the queer place Mrs. Medlock had spoken
of. She was not at all a timid child and she was not exactly frightened,
but she felt that there was no knowing what might happen in a house with
a hundred rooms nearly all shut up--a house standing on the edge of a
moor.

"What is a moor?" she said suddenly to Mrs. Medlock.

"Look out of the window in about ten minutes and you'll see," the woman
answered. "We've got to drive five miles across Missel Moor before we
get to the Manor. You won't see much because it's a dark night, but you
can see something."

Mary asked no more questions but waited in the darkness of her corner,
keeping her eyes on the window. The carriage lamps cast rays of light a
little distance ahead of them and she caught glimpses of the things they
passed. After they had left the station they had driven through a tiny
village and she had seen whitewashed cottages and the lights of a public
house. Then they had passed a church and a vicarage and a little
shop-window or so in a cottage with toys and sweets and odd things set
out for sale. Then they were on the highroad and she saw hedges and
trees. After that there seemed nothing different for a long time--or at
least it seemed a long time to her.

At last the horses began to go more slowly, as if they were climbing
up-hill, and presently there seemed to be no more hedges and no more
trees. She could see nothing, in fact, but a dense darkness on either
side. She leaned forward and pressed her face against the window just as
the carriage gave a big jolt.

"Eh! We're on the moor now sure enough," said Mrs. Medlock.

The carriage lamps shed a yellow light on a rough-looking road which
seemed to be cut through bushes and low growing things which ended in
the great expanse of dark apparently spread out before and around them.
A wind was rising and making a singular, wild, low, rushing sound.

"It's--it's not the sea, is it?" said Mary, looking round at her
companion.

"No, not it," answered Mrs. Medlock. "Nor it isn't fields nor mountains,
it's just miles and miles and miles of wild land that nothing grows on
but heather and gorse and broom, and nothing lives on but wild ponies
and sheep."

"I feel as if it might be the sea, if there were water on it," said
Mary. "It sounds like the sea just now."

"That's the wind blowing through the bushes," Mrs. Medlock said. "It's a
wild, dreary enough place to my mind, though there's plenty that likes
it--particularly when the heather's in bloom."

On and on they drove through the darkness, and though the rain stopped,
the wind rushed by and whistled and made strange sounds. The road went
up and down, and several times the carriage passed over a little bridge
beneath which water rushed very fast with a great deal of noise. Mary
felt as if the drive would never come to an end and that the wide, bleak
moor was a wide expanse of black ocean through which she was passing on
a strip of dry land.

"I don't like it," she said to herself. "I don't like it," and she
pinched her thin lips more tightly together.

The horses were climbing up a hilly piece of road when she first caught
sight of a light. Mrs. Medlock saw it as soon as she did and drew a long
sigh of relief.

"Eh, I am glad to see that bit o' light twinkling," she exclaimed. "It's
the light in the lodge window. We shall get a good cup of tea after a
bit, at all events."

It was "after a bit," as she said, for when the carriage passed through
the park gates there was still two miles of avenue to drive through and
the trees (which nearly met overhead) made it seem as if they were
driving through a long dark vault.

They drove out of the vault into a clear space and stopped before an
immensely long but low-built house which seemed to ramble round a stone
court. At first Mary thought that there were no lights at all in the
windows, but as she got out of the carriage she saw that one room in a
corner up-stairs showed a dull glow.

The entrance door was a huge one made of massive, curiously shaped
panels of oak studded with big iron nails and bound with great iron
bars. It opened into an enormous hall, which was so dimly lighted that
the faces in the portraits on the walls and the figures in the suits of
armor made Mary feel that she did not want to look at them. As she stood
on the stone floor she looked a very small, odd little black figure, and
she felt as small and lost and odd as she looked.

A neat, thin old man stood near the manservant who opened the door for
them.

"You are to take her to her room," he said in a husky voice. "He doesn't
want to see her. He's going to London in the morning."

"Very well, Mr. Pitcher," Mrs. Medlock answered. "So long as I know
what's expected of me, I can manage."

"What's expected of you, Mrs. Medlock," Mr. Pitcher said, "is that you
make sure that he's not disturbed and that he doesn't see what he
doesn't want to see."

And then Mary Lennox was led up a broad staircase and down a long
corridor and up a short flight of steps and through another corridor and
another, until a door opened in a wall and she found herself in a room
with a fire in it and a supper on a table.

Mrs. Medlock said unceremoniously:

"Well, here you are! This room and the next are where you'll live--and
you must keep to them. Don't you forget that!"

It was in this way Mistress Mary arrived at Misselthwaite Manor and she
had perhaps never felt quite so contrary in all her life.

When she opened her eyes in the morning it was because a young housemaid
had come into her room to light the fire and was kneeling on the
hearth-rug raking out the cinders noisily. Mary lay and watched her for
a few moments and then began to look about the room. She had never seen
a room at all like it and thought it curious and gloomy. The walls were
covered with tapestry with a forest scene embroidered on it. There were
fantastically dressed people under the trees and in the distance there
was a glimpse of the turrets of a castle. There were hunters and horses
and dogs and ladies. Mary felt as if she were in the forest with them.
Out of a deep window she could see a great climbing stretch of land
which seemed to have no trees on it, and to look rather like an endless,
dull, purplish sea.

"What is that?" she said, pointing out of the window.

Martha, the young housemaid, who had just risen to her feet, looked and
pointed also.

"That there?" she said.

"Yes."

"That's th' moor," with a good-natured grin. "Does tha' like it?"

"No," answered Mary. "I hate it."

"That's because tha'rt not used to it," Martha said, going back to her
hearth. "Tha' thinks it's too big an' bare now. But tha' will like it."

"Do you?" inquired Mary.

"Aye, that I do," answered Martha, cheerfully polishing away at the
grate. "I just love it. It's none bare. It's covered wi' growin' things
as smells sweet. It's fair lovely in spring an' summer when th' gorse
an' broom an' heather's in flower. It smells o' honey an' there's such a
lot o' fresh air--an' th' sky looks so high an' th' bees an' skylarks
makes such a nice noise hummin' an' singin'. Eh! I wouldn't live away
from th' moor for anythin'."

Mary listened to her with a grave, puzzled expression. The native
servants she had been used to in India were not in the least like this.
They were obsequious and servile and did not presume to talk to their
masters as if they were their equals. They made salaams and called them
"protector of the poor" and names of that sort. Indian servants were
commanded to do things, not asked. It was not the custom to say
"please" and "thank you" and Mary had always slapped her Ayah in the
face when she was angry. She wondered a little what this girl would do
if one slapped her in the face. She was a round, rosy, good-natured
looking creature, but she had a sturdy way which made Mistress Mary
wonder if she might not even slap back--if the person who slapped her
was only a little girl.

"You are a strange servant," she said from her pillows, rather
haughtily.

Martha sat up on her heels, with her blacking-brush in her hand, and
laughed, without seeming the least out of temper.

"Eh! I know that," she said. "If there was a grand Missus at
Misselthwaite I should never have been even one of th' under housemaids.
I might have been let to be scullery-maid but I'd never have been let
up-stairs. I'm too common an' I talk too much Yorkshire. But this is a
funny house for all it's so grand. Seems like there's neither Master nor
Mistress except Mr. Pitcher an' Mrs. Medlock. Mr. Craven, he won't be
troubled about anythin' when he's here, an' he's nearly always away.
Mrs. Medlock gave me th' place out o' kindness. She told me she could
never have done it if Misselthwaite had been like other big houses."

"Are you going to be my servant?" Mary asked, still in her imperious
little Indian way.

Martha began to rub her grate again.

"I'm Mrs. Medlock's servant," she said stoutly. "An' she's Mr.
Craven's--but I'm to do the housemaid's work up here an' wait on you a
bit. But you won't need much waitin' on."

"Who is going to dress me?" demanded Mary.

Martha sat up on her heels again and stared. She spoke in broad
Yorkshire in her amazement.

"Canna' tha' dress thysen!" she said.

"What do you mean? I don't understand your language," said Mary.

"Eh! I forgot," Martha said. "Mrs. Medlock told me I'd have to be
careful or you wouldn't know what I was sayin'. I mean can't you put on
your own clothes?"

"No," answered Mary, quite indignantly. "I never did in my life. My Ayah
dressed me, of course."

"Well," said Martha, evidently not in the least aware that she was
impudent, "it's time tha' should learn. Tha' cannot begin younger. It'll
do thee good to wait on thysen a bit. My mother always said she couldn't
see why grand people's children didn't turn out fair fools--what with
nurses an' bein' washed an' dressed an' took out to walk as if they was
puppies!"

"It is different in India," said Mistress Mary disdainfully. She could
scarcely stand this.

But Martha was not at all crushed.

"Eh! I can see it's different," she answered almost sympathetically. "I
dare say it's because there's such a lot o' blacks there instead o'
respectable white people. When I heard you was comin' from India I
thought you was a black too."

Mary sat up in bed furious.

"What!" she said. "What! You thought I was a native. You--you daughter
of a pig!"

Martha stared and looked hot.

"Who are you callin' names?" she said. "You needn't be so vexed. That's
not th' way for a young lady to talk. I've nothin' against th' blacks.
When you read about 'em in tracts they're always very religious. You
always read as a black's a man an' a brother. I've never seen a black
an' I was fair pleased to think I was goin' to see one close. When I
come in to light your fire this mornin' I crep' up to your bed an'
pulled th' cover back careful to look at you. An' there you was,"
disappointedly, "no more black than me--for all you're so yeller."

Mary did not even try to control her rage and humiliation.

"You thought I was a native! You dared! You don't know anything about
natives! They are not people--they're servants who must salaam to you.
You know nothing about India. You know nothing about anything!"

She was in such a rage and felt so helpless before the girl's simple
stare, and somehow she suddenly felt so horribly lonely and far away
from everything she understood and which understood her, that she threw
herself face downward on the pillows and burst into passionate sobbing.
She sobbed so unrestrainedly that good-natured Yorkshire Martha was a
little frightened and quite sorry for her. She went to the bed and bent
over her.

"Eh! you mustn't cry like that there!" she begged. "You mustn't for
sure. I didn't know you'd be vexed. I don't know anythin' about
anythin'--just like you said. I beg your pardon, Miss. Do stop cryin'."

There was something comforting and really friendly in her queer
Yorkshire speech and sturdy way which had a good effect on Mary. She
gradually ceased crying and became quiet. Martha looked relieved.

"It's time for thee to get up now," she said. "Mrs. Medlock said I was
to carry tha' breakfast an' tea an' dinner into th' room next to this.
It's been made into a nursery for thee. I'll help thee on with thy
clothes if tha'll get out o' bed. If th' buttons are at th' back tha'
cannot button them up tha'self."

When Mary at last decided to get up, the clothes Martha took from the
wardrobe were not the ones she had worn when she arrived the night
before with Mrs. Medlock.

"Those are not mine," she said. "Mine are black."

She looked the thick white wool coat and dress over, and added with cool
approval:

"Those are nicer than mine."

"These are th' ones tha' must put on," Martha answered. "Mr. Craven
ordered Mrs. Medlock to get 'em in London. He said 'I won't have a child
dressed in black wanderin' about like a lost soul,' he said. 'It'd make
the place sadder than it is. Put color on her.' Mother she said she knew
what he meant. Mother always knows what a body means. She doesn't hold
with black hersel'."

"I hate black things," said Mary.

The dressing process was one which taught them both something. Martha
had "buttoned up" her little sisters and brothers but she had never seen
a child who stood still and waited for another person to do things for
her as if she had neither hands nor feet of her own.

"Why doesn't tha' put on tha' own shoes?" she said when Mary quietly
held out her foot.

"My Ayah did it," answered Mary, staring. "It was the custom."

She said that very often--"It was the custom." The native servants were
always saying it. If one told them to do a thing their ancestors had not
done for a thousand years they gazed at one mildly and said, "It is not
the custom" and one knew that was the end of the matter.

It had not been the custom that Mistress Mary should do anything but
stand and allow herself to be dressed like a doll, but before she was
ready for breakfast she began to suspect that her life at Misselthwaite
Manor would end by teaching her a number of things quite new to
her--things such as putting on her own shoes and stockings, and picking
up things she let fall. If Martha had been a well-trained fine young
lady's maid she would have been more subservient and respectful and
would have known that it was her business to brush hair, and button
boots, and pick things up and lay them away. She was, however, only an
untrained Yorkshire rustic who had been brought up in a moorland cottage
with a swarm of little brothers and sisters who had never dreamed of
doing anything but waiting on themselves and on the younger ones who
were either babies in arms or just learning to totter about and tumble
over things.

If Mary Lennox had been a child who was ready to be amused she would
perhaps have laughed at Martha's readiness to talk, but Mary only
listened to her coldly and wondered at her freedom of manner. At first
she was not at all interested, but gradually, as the girl rattled on in
her good-tempered, homely way, Mary began to notice what she was saying.

"Eh! you should see 'em all," she said. "There's twelve of us an' my
father only gets sixteen shilling a week. I can tell you my mother's put
to it to get porridge for 'em all. They tumble about on th' moor an'
play there all day an' mother says th' air of th' moor fattens 'em. She
says she believes they eat th' grass same as th' wild ponies do. Our
Dickon, he's twelve years old and he's got a young pony he calls his
own."

"Where did he get it?" asked Mary.

"He found it on th' moor with its mother when it was a little one an' he
began to make friends with it an' give it bits o' bread an' pluck young
grass for it. And it got to like him so it follows him about an' it
lets him get on its back. Dickon's a kind lad an' animals likes him."

Mary had never possessed an animal pet of her own and had always thought
she should like one. So she began to feel a slight interest in Dickon,
and as she had never before been interested in any one but herself, it
was the dawning of a healthy sentiment. When she went into the room
which had been made into a nursery for her, she found that it was rather
like the one she had slept in. It was not a child's room, but a grown-up
person's room, with gloomy old pictures on the walls and heavy old oak
chairs. A table in the center was set with a good substantial breakfast.
But she had always had a very small appetite, and she looked with
something more than indifference at the first plate Martha set before
her.

"I don't want it," she said.

"Tha' doesn't want thy porridge!" Martha exclaimed incredulously.

"No."

"Tha' doesn't know how good it is. Put a bit o' treacle on it or a bit
o' sugar."

"I don't want it," repeated Mary.

"Eh!" said Martha. "I can't abide to see good victuals go to waste. If
our children was at this table they'd clean it bare in five minutes."

"Why?" said Mary coldly.

"Why!" echoed Martha. "Because they scarce ever had their stomachs full
in their lives. They're as hungry as young hawks an' foxes."

"I don't know what it is to be hungry," said Mary, with the indifference
of ignorance.

Martha looked indignant.

"Well, it would do thee good to try it. I can see that plain enough,"
she said outspokenly. "I've no patience with folk as sits an' just
stares at good bread an' meat. My word! don't I wish Dickon and Phil an'
Jane an' th' rest of 'em had what's here under their pinafores."

"Why don't you take it to them?" suggested Mary.

"It's not mine," answered Martha stoutly. "An' this isn't my day out. I
get my day out once a month same as th' rest. Then I go home an' clean
up for mother an' give her a day's rest."

Mary drank some tea and ate a little toast and some marmalade.

"You wrap up warm an' run out an' play you," said Martha. "It'll do you
good and give you some stomach for your meat."

Mary went to the window. There were gardens and paths and big trees, but
everything looked dull and wintry.

"Out? Why should I go out on a day like this?"

"Well, if tha' doesn't go out tha'lt have to stay in, an' what has tha'
got to do?"

Mary glanced about her. There was nothing to do. When Mrs. Medlock had
prepared the nursery she had not thought of amusement. Perhaps it would
be better to go and see what the gardens were like.

"Who will go with me?" she inquired.

Martha stared.

"You'll go by yourself," she answered. "You'll have to learn to play
like other children does when they haven't got sisters and brothers. Our
Dickon goes off on th' moor by himself an' plays for hours. That's how
he made friends with th' pony. He's got sheep on th' moor that knows
him, an' birds as comes an' eats out of his hand. However little there
is to eat, he always saves a bit o' his bread to coax his pets."

It was really this mention of Dickon which made Mary decide to go out,
though she was not aware of it. There would be birds outside though
there would not be ponies or sheep. They would be different from the
birds in India and it might amuse her to look at them.

Martha found her coat and hat for her and a pair of stout little boots
and she showed her her way down-stairs.

"If tha' goes round that way tha'll come to th' gardens," she said,
pointing to a gate in a wall of shrubbery. "There's lots o' flowers in
summer-time, but there's nothin' bloomin' now." She seemed to hesitate a
second before she added, "One of th' gardens is locked up. No one has
been in it for ten years."

"Why?" asked Mary in spite of herself. Here was another locked door
added to the hundred in the strange house.

"Mr. Craven had it shut when his wife died so sudden. He won't let no
one go inside. It was her garden. He locked th' door an' dug a hole and
buried th' key. There's Mrs. Medlock's bell ringing--I must run."

After she was gone Mary turned down the walk which led to the door in
the shrubbery. She could not help thinking about the garden which no one
had been into for ten years. She wondered what it would look like and
whether there were any flowers still alive in it. When she had passed
through the shrubbery gate she found herself in great gardens, with wide
lawns and winding walks with clipped borders. There were trees, and
flower-beds, and evergreens clipped into strange shapes, and a large
pool with an old gray fountain in its midst. But the flower-beds were
bare and wintry and the fountain was not playing. This was not the
garden which was shut up. How could a garden be shut up? You could
always walk into a garden.

She was just thinking this when she saw that, at the end of the path she
was following, there seemed to be a long wall, with ivy growing over it.
She was not familiar enough with England to know that she was coming
upon the kitchen-gardens where the vegetables and fruit were growing.
She went toward the wall and found that there was a green door in the
ivy, and that it stood open. This was not the closed garden, evidently,
and she could go into it.

She went through the door and found that it was a garden with walls all
round it and that it was only one of several walled gardens which seemed
to open into one another. She saw another open green door, revealing
bushes and pathways between beds containing winter vegetables.
Fruit-trees were trained flat against the wall, and over some of the
beds there were glass frames. The place was bare and ugly enough, Mary
thought, as she stood and stared about her. It might be nicer in summer
when things were green, but there was nothing pretty about it now.

Presently an old man with a spade over his shoulder walked through the
door leading from the second garden. He looked startled when he saw
Mary, and then touched his cap. He had a surly old face, and did not
seem at all pleased to see her--but then she was displeased with his
garden and wore her "quite contrary" expression, and certainly did not
seem at all pleased to see him.

"What is this place?" she asked.

"One o' th' kitchen-gardens," he answered.

"What is that?" said Mary, pointing through the other green door.

"Another of 'em," shortly. "There's another on t'other side o' th' wall
an' there's th' orchard t'other side o' that."

"Can I go in them?" asked Mary.

"If tha' likes. But there's nowt to see."

Mary made no response. She went down the path and through the second
green door. There she found more walls and winter vegetables and glass
frames, but in the second wall there was another green door and it was
not open. Perhaps it led into the garden which no one had seen for ten
years. As she was not at all a timid child and always did what she
wanted to do, Mary went to the green door and turned the handle. She
hoped the door would not open because she wanted to be sure she had
found the mysterious garden--but it did open quite easily and she walked
through it and found herself in an orchard. There were walls all round
it also and trees trained against them, and there were bare fruit-trees
growing in the winter-browned grass--but there was no green door to be
seen anywhere. Mary looked for it, and yet when she had entered the
upper end of the garden she had noticed that the wall did not seem to
end with the orchard but to extend beyond it as if it enclosed a place
at the other side. She could see the tops of trees above the wall, and
when she stood still she saw a bird with a bright red breast sitting on
the topmost branch of one of them, and suddenly he burst into his winter
song--almost as if he had caught sight of her and was calling to her.

She stopped and listened to him and somehow his cheerful, friendly
little whistle gave her a pleased feeling--even a disagreeable little
girl may be lonely, and the big closed house and big bare moor and big
bare gardens had made this one feel as if there was no one left in the
world but herself. If she had been an affectionate child, who had been
used to being loved, she would have broken her heart, but even though
she was "Mistress Mary Quite Contrary" she was desolate, and the
bright-breasted little bird brought a look into her sour little face
which was almost a smile. She listened to him until he flew away. He was
not like an Indian bird and she liked him and wondered if she should
ever see him again. Perhaps he lived in the mysterious garden and knew
all about it.

Perhaps it was because she had nothing whatever to do that she thought
so much of the deserted garden. She was curious about it and wanted to
see what it was like. Why had Mr. Archibald Craven buried the key? If he
had liked his wife so much why did he hate her garden? She wondered if
she should ever see him, but she knew that if she did she should not
like him, and he would not like her, and that she should only stand and
stare at him and say nothing, though she should be wanting dreadfully to
ask him why he had done such a queer thing.

"People never like me and I never like people," she thought. "And I
never can talk as the Crawford children could. They were always talking
and laughing and making noises."

She thought of the robin and of the way he seemed to sing his song at
her, and as she remembered the tree-top he perched on she stopped rather
suddenly on the path.

"I believe that tree was in the secret garden--I feel sure it was," she
said. "There was a wall round the place and there was no door."

She walked back into the first kitchen-garden she had entered and found
the old man digging there. She went and stood beside him and watched
him a few moments in her cold little way. He took no notice of her and
so at last she spoke to him.

"I have been into the other gardens," she said.

"There was nothin' to prevent thee," he answered crustily.

"I went into the orchard."

"There was no dog at th' door to bite thee," he answered.

"There was no door there into the other garden," said Mary.

"What garden?" he said in a rough voice, stopping his digging for a
moment.

"The one on the other side of the wall," answered Mistress Mary. "There
are trees there--I saw the tops of them. A bird with a red breast was
sitting on one of them and he sang."

To her surprise the surly old weather-beaten face actually changed its
expression. A slow smile spread over it and the gardener looked quite
different. It made her think that it was curious how much nicer a person
looked when he smiled. She had not thought of it before.

He turned about to the orchard side of his garden and began to
whistle--a low soft whistle. She could not understand how such a surly
man could make such a coaxing sound.

Almost the next moment a wonderful thing happened. She heard a soft
little rushing flight through the air--and it was the bird with the red
breast flying to them, and he actually alighted on the big clod of earth
quite near to the gardener's foot.

"Here he is," chuckled the old man, and then he spoke to the bird as if
he were speaking to a child.

"Where has tha' been, tha' cheeky little beggar?" he said. "I've not
seen thee before to-day. Has tha' begun tha' courtin' this early in th'
season? Tha'rt too forrad."

The bird put his tiny head on one side and looked up at him with his
soft bright eye which was like a black dewdrop. He seemed quite familiar
and not the least afraid. He hopped about and pecked the earth briskly,
looking for seeds and insects. It actually gave Mary a queer feeling in
her heart, because he was so pretty and cheerful and seemed so like a
person. He had a tiny plump body and a delicate beak, and slender
delicate legs.

"Will he always come when you call him?" she asked almost in a whisper.

"Aye, that he will. I've knowed him ever since he was a fledgling. He
come out of th' nest in th' other garden an' when first he flew over
th' wall he was too weak to fly back for a few days an' we got
friendly. When he went over th' wall again th' rest of th' brood was
gone an' he was lonely an' he come back to me."

"What kind of a bird is he?" Mary asked.

"Doesn't tha' know? He's a robin redbreast an' they're th' friendliest,
curiousest birds alive. They're almost as friendly as dogs--if you know
how to get on with 'em. Watch him peckin' about there an' lookin' round
at us now an' again. He knows we're talkin' about him."

It was the queerest thing in the world to see the old fellow. He looked
at the plump little scarlet-waistcoated bird as if he were both proud
and fond of him.

"He's a conceited one," he chuckled. "He likes to hear folk talk about
him. An' curious--bless me, there never was his like for curiosity an'
meddlin'. He's always comin' to see what I'm plantin'. He knows all th'
things Mester Craven never troubles hissel' to find out. He's th' head
gardener, he is."

The robin hopped about busily pecking the soil and now and then stopped
and looked at them a little. Mary thought his black dewdrop eyes gazed
at her with great curiosity. It really seemed as if he were finding out
all about her. The queer feeling in her heart increased.

"Where did the rest of the brood fly to?" she asked.

"There's no knowin'. The old ones turn 'em out o' their nest an' make
'em fly an' they're scattered before you know it. This one was a knowin'
one an' he knew he was lonely."

Mistress Mary went a step nearer to the robin and looked at him very
hard.

"I'm lonely," she said.

She had not known before that this was one of the things which made her
feel sour and cross. She seemed to find it out when the robin looked at
her and she looked at the robin.

The old gardener pushed his cap back on his bald head and stared at her
a minute.

"Art tha' th' little wench from India?" he asked.

Mary nodded.

"Then no wonder tha'rt lonely. Tha'lt be lonelier before tha's done," he
said.

He began to dig again, driving his spade deep into the rich black garden
soil while the robin hopped about very busily employed.

"What is your name?" Mary inquired.

He stood up to answer her.

"Ben Weatherstaff," he answered, and then he added with a surly chuckle,
"I'm lonely mysel' except when he's with me," and he jerked his thumb
toward the robin. "He's th' only friend I've got."

"I have no friends at all," said Mary. "I never had. My Ayah didn't like
me and I never played with any one."

It is a Yorkshire habit to say what you think with blunt frankness, and
old Ben Weatherstaff was a Yorkshire moor man.

"Tha' an' me are a good bit alike," he said. "We was wove out of th'
same cloth. We're neither of us good lookin' an' we're both of us as
sour as we look. We've got the same nasty tempers, both of us, I'll
warrant."

This was plain speaking, and Mary Lennox had never heard the truth about
herself in her life. Native servants always salaamed and submitted to
you, whatever you did. She had never thought much about her looks, but
she wondered if she was as unattractive as Ben Weatherstaff and she also
wondered if she looked as sour as he had looked before the robin came.
She actually began to wonder also if she was "nasty tempered." She felt
uncomfortable.

Suddenly a clear rippling little sound broke out near her and she turned
round. She was standing a few feet from a young apple-tree and the robin
had flown on to one of its branches and had burst out into a scrap of a
song. Ben Weatherstaff laughed outright.

"What did he do that for?" asked Mary.

"He's made up his mind to make friends with thee," replied Ben. "Dang me
if he hasn't took a fancy to thee."

"To me?" said Mary, and she moved toward the little tree softly and
looked up.

"Would you make friends with me?" she said to the robin just as if she
was speaking to a person. "Would you?" And she did not say it either in
her hard little voice or in her imperious Indian voice, but in a tone so
soft and eager and coaxing that Ben Weatherstaff was as surprised as she
had been when she heard him whistle.

"Why," he cried out, "tha' said that as nice an' human as if tha' was a
real child instead of a sharp old woman. Tha' said it almost like Dickon
talks to his wild things on th' moor."

"Do you know Dickon?" Mary asked, turning round rather in a hurry.

"Everybody knows him. Dickon's wanderin' about everywhere. Th' very
blackberries an' heather-bells knows him. I warrant th' foxes shows him
where their cubs lies an' th' skylarks doesn't hide their nests from
him."

Mary would have liked to ask some more questions. She was almost as
curious about Dickon as she was about the deserted garden. But just that
moment the robin, who had ended his song, gave a little shake of his
wings, spread them and flew away. He had made his visit and had other
things to do.

"He has flown over the wall!" Mary cried out, watching him. "He has
flown into the orchard--he has flown across the other wall--into the
garden where there is no door!"

"He lives there," said old Ben. "He came out o' th' egg there. If he's
courtin', he's makin' up to some young madam of a robin that lives among
th' old rose-trees there."

"Rose-trees," said Mary. "Are there rose-trees?"

Ben Weatherstaff took up his spade again and began to dig.

"There was ten year' ago," he mumbled.

"I should like to see them," said Mary. "Where is the green door? There
must be a door somewhere."

Ben drove his spade deep and looked as uncompanionable as he had looked
when she first saw him.

"There was ten year' ago, but there isn't now," he said.

"No door!" cried Mary. "There must be."

"None as any one can find, an' none as is any one's business. Don't you
be a meddlesome wench an' poke your nose where it's no cause to go.
Here, I must go on with my work. Get you gone an' play you. I've no more
time."

And he actually stopped digging, threw his spade over his shoulder and
walked off, without even glancing at her or saying good-by.

At first each day which passed by for Mary Lennox was exactly like the
others. Every morning she awoke in her tapestried room and found Martha
kneeling upon the hearth building her fire; every morning she ate her
breakfast in the nursery which had nothing amusing in it; and after each
breakfast she gazed out of the window across to the huge moor which
seemed to spread out on all sides and climb up to the sky, and after she
had stared for a while she realized that if she did not go out she would
have to stay in and do nothing--and so she went out. She did not know
that this was the best thing she could have done, and she did not know
that, when she began to walk quickly or even run along the paths and
down the avenue, she was stirring her slow blood and making herself
stronger by fighting with the wind which swept down from the moor. She
ran only to make herself warm, and she hated the wind which rushed at
her face and roared and held her back as if it were some giant she could
not see. But the big breaths of rough fresh air blown over the heather
filled her lungs with something which was good for her whole thin body
and whipped some red color into her cheeks and brightened her dull eyes
when she did not know anything about it.

But after a few days spent almost entirely out of doors she wakened one
morning knowing what it was to be hungry, and when she sat down to her
breakfast she did not glance disdainfully at her porridge and push it
away, but took up her spoon and began to eat it and went on eating it
until her bowl was empty.

"Tha' got on well enough with that this mornin', didn't tha'?" said
Martha.

"It tastes nice to-day," said Mary, feeling a little surprised herself.

"It's th' air of th' moor that's givin' thee stomach for tha' victuals,"
answered Martha. "It's lucky for thee that tha's got victuals as well as
appetite. There's been twelve in our cottage as had th' stomach an'
nothin' to put in it. You go on playin' you out o' doors every day an'
you'll get some flesh on your bones an' you won't be so yeller."

"I don't play," said Mary. "I have nothing to play with."

"Nothin' to play with!" exclaimed Martha. "Our children plays with
sticks and stones. They just runs about an' shouts an' looks at things."

Mary did not shout, but she looked at things. There was nothing else to
do. She walked round and round the gardens and wandered about the paths
in the park. Sometimes she looked for Ben Weatherstaff, but though
several times she saw him at work he was too busy to look at her or was
too surly. Once when she was walking toward him he picked up his spade
and turned away as if he did it on purpose.

One place she went to oftener than to any other. It was the long walk
outside the gardens with the walls round them. There were bare
flower-beds on either side of it and against the walls ivy grew thickly.
There was one part of the wall where the creeping dark green leaves were
more bushy than elsewhere. It seemed as if for a long time that part had
been neglected. The rest of it had been clipped and made to look neat,
but at this lower end of the walk it had not been trimmed at all.

A few days after she had talked to Ben Weatherstaff Mary stopped to
notice this and wondered why it was so. She had just paused and was
looking up at a long spray of ivy swinging in the wind when she saw a
gleam of scarlet and heard a brilliant chirp, and there, on the top of
the wall, perched Ben Weatherstaff's robin redbreast, tilting forward
to look at her with his small head on one side.

"Oh!" she cried out, "is it you--is it you?" And it did not seem at all
queer to her that she spoke to him as if she was sure that he would
understand and answer her.

He did answer. He twittered and chirped and hopped along the wall as if
he were telling her all sorts of things. It seemed to Mistress Mary as
if she understood him, too, though he was not speaking in words. It was
as if he said:

"Good morning! Isn't the wind nice? Isn't the sun nice? Isn't everything
nice? Let us both chirp and hop and twitter. Come on! Come on!"

Mary began to laugh, and as he hopped and took little flights along the
wall she ran after him. Poor little thin, sallow, ugly Mary--she
actually looked almost pretty for a moment.

"I like you! I like you!" she cried out, pattering down the walk; and
she chirped and tried to whistle, which last she did not know how to do
in the least. But the robin seemed to be quite satisfied and chirped and
whistled back at her. At last he spread his wings and made a darting
flight to the top of a tree, where he perched and sang loudly.

That reminded Mary of the first time she had seen him. He had been
swinging on a tree-top then and she had been standing in the orchard.
Now she was on the other side of the orchard and standing in the path
outside a wall--much lower down--and there was the same tree inside.

"It's in the garden no one can go into," she said to herself. "It's the
garden without a door. He lives in there. How I wish I could see what it
is like!"

She ran up the walk to the green door she had entered the first morning.
Then she ran down the path through the other door and then into the
orchard, and when she stood and looked up there was the tree on the
other side of the wall, and there was the robin just finishing his song
and beginning to preen his feathers with his beak.

"It is the garden," she said. "I am sure it is."

She walked round and looked closely at that side of the orchard wall,
but she only found what she had found before--that there was no door in
it. Then she ran through the kitchen-gardens again and out into the walk
outside the long ivy-covered wall, and she walked to the end of it and
looked at it, but there was no door; and then she walked to the other
end, looking again, but there was no door.

"It's very queer," she said. "Ben Weatherstaff said there was no door
and there is no door. But there must have been one ten years ago,
because Mr. Craven buried the key."

This gave her so much to think of that she began to be quite interested
and feel that she was not sorry that she had come to Misselthwaite
Manor. In India she had always felt hot and too languid to care much
about anything. The fact was that the fresh wind from the moor had begun
to blow the cobwebs out of her young brain and to waken her up a little.

She stayed out of doors nearly all day, and when she sat down to her
supper at night she felt hungry and drowsy and comfortable. She did not
feel cross when Martha chattered away. She felt as if she rather liked
to hear her, and at last she thought she would ask her a question. She
asked it after she had finished her supper and had sat down on the
hearth-rug before the fire.

"Why did Mr. Craven hate the garden?" she said.

She had made Martha stay with her and Martha had not objected at all.
She was very young, and used to a crowded cottage full of brothers and
sisters, and she found it dull in the great servants' hall down-stairs
where the footman and upper-housemaids made fun of her Yorkshire speech
and looked upon her as a common little thing, and sat and whispered
among themselves. Martha liked to talk, and the strange child who had
lived in India, and been waited upon by "blacks," was novelty enough to
attract her.

She sat down on the hearth herself without waiting to be asked.

"Art tha' thinkin' about that garden yet?" she said. "I knew tha' would.
That was just the way with me when I first heard about it."

"Why did he hate it?" Mary persisted.

Martha tucked her feet under her and made herself quite comfortable.

"Listen to th' wind wutherin' round the house," she said. "You could
bare stand up on the moor if you was out on it to-night."

Mary did not know what "wutherin'" meant until she listened, and then
she understood. It must mean that hollow shuddering sort of roar which
rushed round and round the house as if the giant no one could see were
buffeting it and beating at the walls and windows to try to break in.
But one knew he could not get in, and somehow it made one feel very safe
and warm inside a room with a red coal fire.

"But why did he hate it so?" she asked, after she had listened. She
intended to know if Martha did.

Then Martha gave up her store of knowledge.

"Mind," she said, "Mrs. Medlock said it's not to be talked about.
There's lots o' things in this place that's not to be talked over.
That's Mr. Craven's orders. His troubles are none servants' business, he
says. But for th' garden he wouldn't be like he is. It was Mrs. Craven's
garden that she had made when first they were married an' she just loved
it, an' they used to 'tend the flowers themselves. An' none o' th'
gardeners was ever let to go in. Him an' her used to go in an' shut th'
door an' stay there hours an' hours, readin' an' talkin'. An' she was
just a bit of a girl an' there was an old tree with a branch bent like a
seat on it. An' she made roses grow over it an' she used to sit there.
But one day when she was sittin' there th' branch broke an' she fell on
th' ground an' was hurt so bad that next day she died. Th' doctors
thought he'd go out o' his mind an' die, too. That's why he hates it. No
one's never gone in since, an' he won't let any one talk about it."

Mary did not ask any more questions. She looked at the red fire and
listened to the wind "wutherin'." It seemed to be "wutherin'" louder
than ever.

At that moment a very good thing was happening to her. Four good things
had happened to her, in fact, since she came to Misselthwaite Manor. She
had felt as if she had understood a robin and that he had understood
her; she had run in the wind until her blood had grown warm; she had
been healthily hungry for the first time in her life; and she had found
out what it was to be sorry for some one. She was getting on.

But as she was listening to the wind she began to listen to something
else. She did not know what it was, because at first she could scarcely
distinguish it from the wind itself. It was a curious sound--it seemed
almost as if a child were crying somewhere. Sometimes the wind sounded
rather like a child crying, but presently Mistress Mary felt quite sure
that this sound was inside the house, not outside it. It was far away,
but it was inside. She turned round and looked at Martha.

"Do you hear any one crying?" she said.

Martha suddenly looked confused.

"No," she answered. "It's th' wind. Sometimes it sounds like as if some
one was lost on th' moor an' wailin'. It's got all sorts o' sounds."

"But listen," said Mary. "It's in the house--down one of those long
corridors."

And at that very moment a door must have been opened somewhere
down-stairs; for a great rushing draft blew along the passage and the
door of the room they sat in was blown open with a crash, and as they
both jumped to their feet the light was blown out and the crying sound
was swept down the far corridor so that it was to be heard more plainly
than ever.

"There!" said Mary. "I told you so! It is some one crying--and it isn't a
grown-up person."

Martha ran and shut the door and turned the key, but before she did it
they both heard the sound of a door in some far passage shutting with a
bang, and then everything was quiet, for even the wind ceased
"wutherin'" for a few moments.

"It was th' wind," said Martha stubbornly. "An' if it wasn't, it was
little Betty Butterworth, th' scullery-maid. She's had th' toothache all
day."

But something troubled and awkward in her manner made Mistress Mary
stare very hard at her. She did not believe she was speaking the truth.

The next day the rain poured down in torrents again, and when Mary
looked out of her window the moor was almost hidden by gray mist and
cloud. There could be no going out to-day.

"What do you do in your cottage when it rains like this?" she asked
Martha.

"Try to keep from under each other's feet mostly," Martha answered. "Eh!
there does seem a lot of us then. Mother's a good-tempered woman but she
gets fair moithered. The biggest ones goes out in th' cow-shed and plays
there. Dickon he doesn't mind th' wet. He goes out just th' same as if
th' sun was shinin'. He says he sees things on rainy days as doesn't
show when it's fair weather. He once found a little fox cub half drowned
in its hole and he brought it home in th' bosom of his shirt to keep it
warm. Its mother had been killed nearby an' th' hole was swum out an'
th' rest o' th' litter was dead. He's got it at home now. He found a
half-drowned young crow another time an' he brought it home, too, an'
tamed it. It's named Soot because it's so black, an' it hops an' flies
about with him everywhere."

The time had come when Mary had forgotten to resent Martha's familiar
talk. She had even begun to find it interesting and to be sorry when she
stopped or went away. The stories she had been told by her Ayah when she
lived in India had been quite unlike those Martha had to tell about the
moorland cottage which held fourteen people who lived in four little
rooms and never had quite enough to eat. The children seemed to tumble
about and amuse themselves like a litter of rough, good-natured collie
puppies. Mary was most attracted by the mother and Dickon. When Martha
told stories of what "mother" said or did they always sounded
comfortable.

"If I had a raven or a fox cub I could play with it," said Mary. "But I
have nothing."

Martha looked perplexed.

"Can tha' knit?" she asked.

"No," answered Mary.

"Can tha' sew?"

"No."

"Can tha' read?"

"Yes."

"Then why doesn't tha' read somethin', or learn a bit o' spellin'?
Tha'st old enough to be learnin' thy book a good bit now."

"I haven't any books," said Mary. "Those I had were left in India."

"That's a pity," said Martha. "If Mrs. Medlock'd let thee go into th'
library, there's thousands o' books there."

Mary did not ask where the library was, because she was suddenly
inspired by a new idea. She made up her mind to go and find it herself.
She was not troubled about Mrs. Medlock. Mrs. Medlock seemed always to
be in her comfortable housekeeper's sitting-room down-stairs. In this
queer place one scarcely ever saw any one at all. In fact, there was no
one to see but the servants, and when their master was away they lived a
luxurious life below stairs, where there was a huge kitchen hung about
with shining brass and pewter, and a large servants' hall where there
were four or five abundant meals eaten every day, and where a great deal
of lively romping went on when Mrs. Medlock was out of the way.

Mary's meals were served regularly, and Martha waited on her, but no one
troubled themselves about her in the least. Mrs. Medlock came and looked
at her every day or two, but no one inquired what she did or told her
what to do. She supposed that perhaps this was the English way of
treating children. In India she had always been attended by her Ayah,
who had followed her about and waited on her, hand and foot. She had
often been tired of her company. Now she was followed by nobody and was
learning to dress herself because Martha looked as though she thought
she was silly and stupid when she wanted to have things handed to her
and put on.

"Hasn't tha' got good sense?" she said once, when Mary had stood waiting
for her to put on her gloves for her. "Our Susan Ann is twice as sharp
as thee an' she's only four year' old. Sometimes tha' looks fair soft in
th' head."

Mary had worn her contrary scowl for an hour after that, but it made her
think several entirely new things.

She stood at the window for about ten minutes this morning after Martha
had swept up the hearth for the last time and gone down-stairs. She was
thinking over the new idea which had come to her when she heard of the
library. She did not care very much about the library itself, because
she had read very few books; but to hear of it brought back to her mind
the hundred rooms with closed doors. She wondered if they were all
really locked and what she would find if she could get into any of them.
Were there a hundred really? Why shouldn't she go and see how many doors
she could count? It would be something to do on this morning when she
could not go out. She had never been taught to ask permission to do
things, and she knew nothing at all about authority, so she would not
have thought it necessary to ask Mrs. Medlock if she might walk about
the house, even if she had seen her.

She opened the door of the room and went into the corridor, and then she
began her wanderings. It was a long corridor and it branched into other
corridors and it led her up short flights of steps which mounted to
others again. There were doors and doors, and there were pictures on the
walls. Sometimes they were pictures of dark, curious landscapes, but
oftenest they were portraits of men and women in queer, grand costumes
made of satin and velvet. She found herself in one long gallery whose
walls were covered with these portraits. She had never thought there
could be so many in any house. She walked slowly down this place and
stared at the faces which also seemed to stare at her. She felt as if
they were wondering what a little girl from India was doing in their
house. Some were pictures of children--little girls in thick satin
frocks which reached to their feet and stood out about them, and boys
with puffed sleeves and lace collars and long hair, or with big ruffs
around their necks. She always stopped to look at the children, and
wonder what their names were, and where they had gone, and why they wore
such odd clothes. There was a stiff, plain little girl rather like
herself. She wore a green brocade dress and held a green parrot on her
finger. Her eyes had a sharp, curious look.

"Where do you live now?" said Mary aloud to her. "I wish you were here."

Surely no other little girl ever spent such a queer morning. It seemed
as if there was no one in all the huge rambling house but her own small
self, wandering about up-stairs and down, through narrow passages and
wide ones, where it seemed to her that no one but herself had ever
walked. Since so many rooms had been built, people must have lived in
them, but it all seemed so empty that she could not quite believe it
true.

It was not until she climbed to the second floor that she thought of
turning the handle of a door. All the doors were shut, as Mrs. Medlock
had said they were, but at last she put her hand on the handle of one of
them and turned it. She was almost frightened for a moment when she felt
that it turned without difficulty and that when she pushed upon the door
itself it slowly and heavily opened. It was a massive door and opened
into a big bedroom. There were embroidered hangings on the wall, and
inlaid furniture such as she had seen in India stood about the room. A
broad window with leaded panes looked out upon the moor; and over the
mantel was another portrait of the stiff, plain little girl who seemed
to stare at her more curiously than ever.

"Perhaps she slept here once," said Mary. "She stares at me so that she
makes me feel queer."

After that she opened more doors and more. She saw so many rooms that
she became quite tired and began to think that there must be a hundred,
though she had not counted them. In all of them there were old pictures
or old tapestries with strange scenes worked on them. There were curious
pieces of furniture and curious ornaments in nearly all of them.

In one room, which looked like a lady's sitting-room, the hangings were
all embroidered velvet, and in a cabinet were about a hundred little
elephants made of ivory. They were of different sizes, and some had
their mahouts or palanquins on their backs. Some were much bigger than
the others and some were so tiny that they seemed only babies. Mary had
seen carved ivory in India and she knew all about elephants. She opened
the door of the cabinet and stood on a footstool and played with these
for quite a long time. When she got tired she set the elephants in
order and shut the door of the cabinet.

In all her wanderings through the long corridors and the empty rooms,
she had seen nothing alive; but in this room she saw something. Just
after she had closed the cabinet door she heard a tiny rustling sound.
It made her jump and look around at the sofa by the fireplace, from
which it seemed to come. In the corner of the sofa there was a cushion,
and in the velvet which covered it there was a hole, and out of the hole
peeped a tiny head with a pair of frightened eyes in it.

Mary crept softly across the room to look. The bright eyes belonged to a
little gray mouse, and the mouse had eaten a hole into the cushion and
made a comfortable nest there. Six baby mice were cuddled up asleep near
her. If there was no one else alive in the hundred rooms there were
seven mice who did not look lonely at all.

"If they wouldn't be so frightened I would take them back with me," said
Mary.

She had wandered about long enough to feel too tired to wander any
farther, and she turned back. Two or three times she lost her way by
turning down the wrong corridor and was obliged to ramble up and down
until she found the right one; but at last she reached her own floor
again, though she was some distance from her own room and did not know
exactly where she was.

"I believe I have taken a wrong turning again," she said, standing still
at what seemed the end of a short passage with tapestry on the wall. "I
don't know which way to go. How still everything is!"

It was while she was standing here and just after she had said this that
the stillness was broken by a sound. It was another cry, but not quite
like the one she had heard last night; it was only a short one, a
fretful, childish whine muffled by passing through walls.

"It's nearer than it was," said Mary, her heart beating rather faster.
"And it _is_ crying."

She put her hand accidentally upon the tapestry near her, and then
sprang back, feeling quite startled. The tapestry was the covering of a
door which fell open and showed her that there was another part of the
corridor behind it, and Mrs. Medlock was coming up it with her bunch of
keys in her hand and a very cross look on her face.

"What are you doing here?" she said, and she took Mary by the arm and
pulled her away. "What did I tell you?"

"I turned round the wrong corner," explained Mary. "I didn't know which
way to go and I heard some one crying."

She quite hated Mrs. Medlock at the moment, but she hated her more the
next.

"You didn't hear anything of the sort," said the housekeeper. "You come
along back to your own nursery or I'll box your ears."

And she took her by the arm and half pushed, half pulled her up one
passage and down another until she pushed her in at the door of her own
room.

"Now," she said, "you stay where you're told to stay or you'll find
yourself locked up. The master had better get you a governess, same as
he said he would. You're one that needs some one to look sharp after
you. I've got enough to do."

She went out of the room and slammed the door after her, and Mary went
and sat on the hearth-rug, pale with rage. She did not cry, but ground
her teeth.

"There _was_ some one crying--there _was_--there _was_!" she said to
herself.

She had heard it twice now, and sometime she would find out. She had
found out a great deal this morning. She felt as if she had been on a
long journey, and at any rate she had had something to amuse her all the
time, and she had played with the ivory elephants and had seen the gray
mouse and its babies in their nest in the velvet cushion.

Two days after this, when Mary opened her eyes she sat upright in bed
immediately, and called to Martha.

"Look at the moor! Look at the moor!"

The rain-storm had ended and the gray mist and clouds had been swept
away in the night by the wind. The wind itself had ceased and a
brilliant, deep blue sky arched high over the moorland. Never, never had
Mary dreamed of a sky so blue. In India skies were hot and blazing; this
was of a deep cool blue which almost seemed to sparkle like the waters
of some lovely bottomless lake, and here and there, high, high in the
arched blueness floated small clouds of snow-white fleece. The
far-reaching world of the moor itself looked softly blue instead of
gloomy purple-black or awful dreary gray.

"Aye," said Martha with a cheerful grin. "Th' storm's over for a bit. It
does like this at this time o' th' year. It goes off in a night like it
was pretendin' it had never been here an' never meant to come again.
That's because th' springtime's on its way. It's a long way off yet, but
it's comin'."

"I thought perhaps it always rained or looked dark in England," Mary
said.

"Eh! no!" said Martha, sitting up on her heels among her black lead
brushes. "Nowt o' th' soart!"

"What does that mean?" asked Mary seriously. In India the natives spoke
different dialects which only a few people understood, so she was not
surprised when Martha used words she did not know.

Martha laughed as she had done the first morning.

"There now," she said. "I've talked broad Yorkshire again like Mrs. Medlock
said I mustn't. 'Nowt o' th' soart' means 'nothin'-of-the-sort,'" slowly
and carefully, "but it takes so long to say it. Yorkshire's th' sunniest
place on earth when it is sunny. I told thee tha'd like th' moor after a
bit. Just you wait till you see th' gold-colored gorse blossoms an' th'
blossoms o' th' broom, an' th' heather flowerin', all purple bells, an'
hundreds o' butterflies flutterin' an' bees hummin' an' skylarks soarin'
up an' singin'. You'll want to get out on it at sunrise an' live out on
it all day like Dickon does."

"Could I ever get there?" asked Mary wistfully, looking through her
window at the far-off blue. It was so new and big and wonderful and such
a heavenly color.

"I don't know," answered Martha. "Tha's never used tha' legs since tha'
was born, it seems to me. Tha' couldn't walk five mile. It's five mile
to our cottage."

"I should like to see your cottage."

Martha stared at her a moment curiously before she took up her polishing
brush and began to rub the grate again. She was thinking that the small
plain face did not look quite as sour at this moment as it had done the
first morning she saw it. It looked just a trifle like little Susan
Ann's when she wanted something very much.

"I'll ask my mother about it," she said. "She's one o' them that nearly
always sees a way to do things. It's my day out to-day an' I'm goin'
home. Eh! I am glad. Mrs. Medlock thinks a lot o' mother. Perhaps she
could talk to her."

"I like your mother," said Mary.

"I should think tha' did," agreed Martha, polishing away.

"I've never seen her," said Mary.

"No, tha' hasn't," replied Martha.

She sat up on her heels again and rubbed the end of her nose with the
back of her hand as if puzzled for a moment, but she ended quite
positively.

"Well, she's that sensible an' hard workin' an' good-natured an' clean
that no one could help likin' her whether they'd seen her or not. When
I'm goin' home to her on my day out I just jump for joy when I'm
crossin' th' moor."

"I like Dickon," added Mary. "And I've never seen him."

"Well," said Martha stoutly, "I've told thee that th' very birds likes
him an' th' rabbits an' wild sheep an' ponies, an' th' foxes themselves.
I wonder," staring at her reflectively, "what Dickon would think of
thee?"

"He wouldn't like me," said Mary in her stiff, cold little way. "No one
does."

Martha looked reflective again.

"How does tha' like thysel'?" she inquired, really quite as if she were
curious to know.

Mary hesitated a moment and thought it over.

"Not at all--really," she answered. "But I never thought of that
before."

Martha grinned a little as if at some homely recollection.

"Mother said that to me once," she said. "She was at her wash-tub an' I
was in a bad temper an' talkin' ill of folk, an' she turns round on me
an' says: 'Tha' young vixon, tha'! There tha' stands sayin' tha'
doesn't like this one an' tha' doesn't like that one. How does tha' like
thysel'?' It made me laugh an' it brought me to my senses in a minute."

She went away in high spirits as soon as she had given Mary her
breakfast. She was going to walk five miles across the moor to the
cottage, and she was going to help her mother with the washing and do
the week's baking and enjoy herself thoroughly.

Mary felt lonelier than ever when she knew she was no longer in the
house. She went out into the garden as quickly as possible, and the
first thing she did was to run round and round the fountain flower
garden ten times. She counted the times carefully and when she had
finished she felt in better spirits. The sunshine made the whole place
look different. The high, deep, blue sky arched over Misselthwaite as
well as over the moor, and she kept lifting her face and looking up into
it, trying to imagine what it would be like to lie down on one of the
little snow-white clouds and float about. She went into the first
kitchen-garden and found Ben Weatherstaff working there with two other
gardeners. The change in the weather seemed to have done him good. He
spoke to her of his own accord.

"Springtime's comin'," he said. "Cannot tha' smell it?"

Mary sniffed and thought she could.

"I smell something nice and fresh and damp," she said.

"That's th' good rich earth," he answered, digging away. "It's in a good
humor makin' ready to grow things. It's glad when plantin' time comes.
It's dull in th' winter when it's got nowt to do. In th' flower gardens
out there things will be stirrin' down below in th' dark. Th' sun's
warmin' 'em. You'll see bits o' green spikes stickin' out o' th' black
earth after a bit."

"What will they be?" asked Mary.

"Crocuses an' snowdrops an' daffydowndillys. Has tha' never seen them?"

"No. Everything is hot, and wet, and green after the rains in India,"
said Mary. "And I think things grow up in a night."

"These won't grow up in a night," said Weatherstaff. "Tha'll have to
wait for 'em. They'll poke up a bit higher here, an' push out a spike
more there, an' uncurl a leaf this day an' another that. You watch 'em."

"I am going to," answered Mary.

Very soon she heard the soft rustling flight of wings again and she knew
at once that the robin had come again. He was very pert and lively, and
hopped about so close to her feet, and put his head on one side and
looked at her so slyly that she asked Ben Weatherstaff a question.

"Do you think he remembers me?" she said.

"Remembers thee!" said Weatherstaff indignantly. "He knows every cabbage
stump in th' gardens, let alone th' people. He's never seen a little
wench here before, an' he's bent on findin' out all about thee. Tha's no
need to try to hide anything from _him_."

"Are things stirring down below in the dark in that garden where he
lives?" Mary inquired.

"What garden?" grunted Weatherstaff, becoming surly again.

"The one where the old rose-trees are." She could not help asking,
because she wanted so much to know. "Are all the flowers dead, or do
some of them come again in the summer? Are there ever any roses?"

"Ask him," said Ben Weatherstaff, hunching his shoulders toward the
robin. "He's the only one as knows. No one else has seen inside it for
ten year'."

Ten years was a long time, Mary thought. She had been born ten years
ago.

She walked away, slowly thinking. She had begun to like the garden just
as she had begun to like the robin and Dickon and Martha's mother. She
was beginning to like Martha, too. That seemed a good many people to
like--when you were not used to liking. She thought of the robin as one
of the people. She went to her walk outside the long, ivy-covered wall
over which she could see the tree-tops; and the second time she walked
up and down the most interesting and exciting thing happened to her, and
it was all through Ben Weatherstaff's robin.

She heard a chirp and a twitter, and when she looked at the bare
flower-bed at her left side there he was hopping about and pretending to
peck things out of the earth to persuade her that he had not followed
her. But she knew he had followed her and the surprise so filled her
with delight that she almost trembled a little.

"You do remember me!" she cried out. "You do! You are prettier than
anything else in the world!"

She chirped, and talked, and coaxed and he hopped, and flirted his tail
and twittered. It was as if he were talking. His red waistcoat was like
satin and he puffed his tiny breast out and was so fine and so grand and
so pretty that it was really as if he were showing her how important and
like a human person a robin could be. Mistress Mary forgot that she had
ever been contrary in her life when he allowed her to draw closer and
closer to him, and bend down and talk and try to make something like
robin sounds.

Oh! to think that he should actually let her come as near to him as
that! He knew nothing in the world would make her put out her hand
toward him or startle him in the least tiniest way. He knew it because
he was a real person--only nicer than any other person in the world. She
was so happy that she scarcely dared to breathe.

The flower-bed was not quite bare. It was bare of flowers because the
perennial plants had been cut down for their winter rest, but there were
tall shrubs and low ones which grew together at the back of the bed, and
as the robin hopped about under them she saw him hop over a small pile
of freshly turned up earth. He stopped on it to look for a worm. The
earth had been turned up because a dog had been trying to dig up a mole
and he had scratched quite a deep hole.

Mary looked at it, not really knowing why the hole was there, and as she
looked she saw something almost buried in the newly-turned soil. It was
something like a ring of rusty iron or brass and when the robin flew up
into a tree nearby she put out her hand and picked the ring up. It was
more than a ring, however; it was an old key which looked as if it had
been buried a long time.

Mistress Mary stood up and looked at it with an almost frightened face
as it hung from her finger.

"Perhaps it has been buried for ten years," she said in a whisper.
"Perhaps it is the key to the garden!"

She looked at the key quite a long time. She turned it over and over,
and thought about it. As I have said before, she was not a child who had
been trained to ask permission or consult her elders about things. All
she thought about the key was that if it was the key to the closed
garden, and she could find out where the door was, she could perhaps
open it and see what was inside the walls, and what had happened to the
old rose-trees. It was because it had been shut up so long that she
wanted to see it. It seemed as if it must be different from other places
and that something strange must have happened to it during ten years.
Besides that, if she liked it she could go into it every day and shut
the door behind her, and she could make up some play of her own and play
it quite alone, because nobody would ever know where she was, but would
think the door was still locked and the key buried in the earth. The
thought of that pleased her very much.

Living as it were, all by herself in a house with a hundred
mysteriously closed rooms and having nothing whatever to do to amuse
herself, had set her inactive brain to working and was actually
awakening her imagination. There is no doubt that the fresh, strong,
pure air from the moor had a great deal to do with it. Just as it had
given her an appetite, and fighting with the wind had stirred her blood,
so the same things had stirred her mind. In India she had always been
too hot and languid and weak to care much about anything, but in this
place she was beginning to care and to want to do new things. Already
she felt less "contrary," though she did not know why.

She put the key in her pocket and walked up and down her walk. No one
but herself ever seemed to come there, so she could walk slowly and look
at the wall, or, rather, at the ivy growing on it. The ivy was the
baffling thing. Howsoever carefully she looked she could see nothing but
thickly-growing, glossy, dark green leaves. She was very much
disappointed. Something of her contrariness came back to her as she
paced the walk and looked over it at the tree-tops inside. It seemed so
silly, she said to herself, to be near it and not be able to get in. She
took the key in her pocket when she went back to the house, and she made
up her mind that she would always carry it with her when she went out,
so that if she ever should find the hidden door she would be ready.

Mrs. Medlock had allowed Martha to sleep all night at the cottage, but
she was back at her work in the morning with cheeks redder than ever and
in the best of spirits.

"I got up at four o'clock," she said. "Eh! it was pretty on th' moor
with th' birds gettin' up an' th' rabbits scamperin' about an' th' sun
risin'. I didn't walk all th' way. A man gave me a ride in his cart an'
I can tell you I did enjoy myself."

She was full of stories of the delights of her day out. Her mother had
been glad to see her and they had got the baking and washing all out of
the way. She had even made each of the children a dough-cake with a bit
of brown sugar in it.

"I had 'em all pipin' hot when they came in from playin' on th' moor.
An' th' cottage all smelt o' nice, clean hot bakin' an' there was a good
fire, an' they just shouted for joy. Our Dickon he said our cottage was
good enough for a king to live in."

In the evening they had all sat round the fire, and Martha and her
mother had sewed patches on torn clothes and mended stockings and Martha
had told them about the little girl who had come from India and who had
been waited on all her life by what Martha called "blacks" until she
didn't know how to put on her own stockings.

"Eh! they did like to hear about you," said Martha. "They wanted to know
all about th' blacks an' about th' ship you came in. I couldn't tell 'em
enough."

Mary reflected a little.

"I'll tell you a great deal more before your next day out," she said,
"so that you will have more to talk about. I dare say they would like to
hear about riding on elephants and camels, and about the officers going
to hunt tigers."

"My word!" cried delighted Martha. "It would set 'em clean off their
heads. Would tha' really do that, Miss? It would be same as a wild beast
show like we heard they had in York once."

"India is quite different from Yorkshire," Mary said slowly, as she
thought the matter over. "I never thought of that. Did Dickon and your
mother like to hear you talk about me?"

"Why, our Dickon's eyes nearly started out o' his head, they got that
round," answered Martha. "But mother, she was put out about your seemin'
to be all by yourself like. She said, 'Hasn't Mr. Craven got no
governess for her, nor no nurse?' and I said, 'No, he hasn't, though
Mrs. Medlock says he will when he thinks of it, but she says he mayn't
think of it for two or three years.'"

"I don't want a governess," said Mary sharply.

"But mother says you ought to be learnin' your book by this time an' you
ought to have a woman to look after you, an' she says: 'Now, Martha, you
just think how you'd feel yourself, in a big place like that, wanderin'
about all alone, an' no mother. You do your best to cheer her up,' she
says, an' I said I would."

Mary gave her a long, steady look.

"You do cheer me up," she said. "I like to hear you talk."

Presently Martha went out of the room and came back with something held
in her hands under her apron.

"What does tha' think," she said, with a cheerful grin. "I've brought
thee a present."

"A present!" exclaimed Mistress Mary. How could a cottage full of
fourteen hungry people give any one a present!

"A man was drivin' across the moor peddlin'," Martha explained. "An' he
stopped his cart at our door. He had pots an' pans an' odds an' ends,
but mother had no money to buy anythin'. Just as he was goin' away our
'Lizabeth Ellen called out, 'Mother, he's got skippin'-ropes with red
an' blue handles.' An' mother she calls out quite sudden, 'Here, stop,
mister! How much are they?' An' he says 'Tuppence,' an' mother she
began fumblin' in her pocket an' she says to me, 'Martha, tha's brought
me thy wages like a good lass, an' I've got four places to put every
penny, but I'm just goin' to take tuppence out of it to buy that child a
skippin'-rope,' an' she bought one an' here it is."

She brought it out from under her apron and exhibited it quite proudly.
It was a strong, slender rope with a striped red and blue handle at each
end, but Mary Lennox had never seen a skipping-rope before. She gazed at
it with a mystified expression.

"What is it for?" she asked curiously.

"For!" cried out Martha. "Does tha' mean that they've not got
skippin'-ropes in India, for all they've got elephants and tigers and
camels! No wonder most of 'em's black. This is what it's for; just watch
me."

And she ran into the middle of the room and, taking a handle in each
hand, began to skip, and skip, and skip, while Mary turned in her chair
to stare at her, and the queer faces in the old portraits seemed to
stare at her, too, and wonder what on earth this common little cottager
had the impudence to be doing under their very noses. But Martha did not
even see them. The interest and curiosity in Mistress Mary's face
delighted her, and she went on skipping and counted as she skipped
until she had reached a hundred.

"I could skip longer than that," she said when she stopped. "I've
skipped as much as five hundred when I was twelve, but I wasn't as fat
then as I am now, an' I was in practice."

Mary got up from her chair beginning to feel excited herself.

"It looks nice," she said. "Your mother is a kind woman. Do you think I
could ever skip like that?"

"You just try it," urged Martha, handing her the skipping-rope. "You
can't skip a hundred at first, but if you practise you'll mount up.
That's what mother said. She says, 'Nothin' will do her more good than
skippin' rope. It's th' sensiblest toy a child can have. Let her play
out in th' fresh air skippin' an' it'll stretch her legs an' arms an'
give her some strength in 'em.'"

It was plain that there was not a great deal of strength in Mistress
Mary's arms and legs when she first began to skip. She was not very
clever at it, but she liked it so much that she did not want to stop.

"Put on tha' things and run an' skip out o' doors," said Martha. "Mother
said I must tell you to keep out o' doors as much as you could, even
when it rains a bit, so as tha' wrap up warm."

Mary put on her coat and hat and took her skipping-rope over her arm.
She opened the door to go out, and then suddenly thought of something
and turned back rather slowly.

"Martha," she said, "they were your wages. It was your twopence really.
Thank you." She said it stiffly because she was not used to thanking
people or noticing that they did things for her. "Thank you," she said,
and held out her hand because she did not know what else to do.

Martha gave her hand a clumsy little shake, as if she was not accustomed
to this sort of thing either. Then she laughed.

"Eh! tha' art a queer, old-womanish thing," she said. "If tha'd been our
'Lizabeth Ellen tha'd have give me a kiss."

Mary looked stiffer than ever.

"Do you want me to kiss you?"

Martha laughed again.

"Nay, not me," she answered. "If tha' was different, p'raps tha'd want
to thysel'. But tha' isn't. Run off outside an' play with thy rope."

Mistress Mary felt a little awkward as she went out of the room.
Yorkshire people seemed strange, and Martha was always rather a puzzle
to her. At first she had disliked her very much, but now she did not.

The skipping-rope was a wonderful thing. She counted and skipped, and
skipped and counted, until her cheeks were quite red, and she was more
interested than she had ever been since she was born. The sun was
shining and a little wind was blowing--not a rough wind, but one which
came in delightful little gusts and brought a fresh scent of newly
turned earth with it. She skipped round the fountain garden, and up one
walk and down another. She skipped at last into the kitchen-garden and
saw Ben Weatherstaff digging and talking to his robin, which was hopping
about him. She skipped down the walk toward him and he lifted his head
and looked at her with a curious expression. She had wondered if he
would notice her. She really wanted him to see her skip.

"Well!" he exclaimed. "Upon my word! P'raps tha' art a young 'un, after
all, an' p'raps tha's got child's blood in thy veins instead of sour
buttermilk. Tha's skipped red into thy cheeks as sure as my name's Ben
Weatherstaff. I wouldn't have believed tha' could do it."

"I never skipped before," Mary said. "I'm just beginning. I can only go
up to twenty."

"Tha' keep on," said Ben. "Tha' shapes well enough at it for a young 'un
that's lived with heathen. Just see how he's watchin' thee," jerking his
head toward the robin. "He followed after thee yesterday. He'll be at
it again to-day. He'll be bound to find out what th' skippin'-rope is.
He's never seen one. Eh!" shaking his head at the bird, "tha' curosity
will be th' death of thee sometime if tha' doesn't look sharp."

Mary skipped round all the gardens and round the orchard, resting every
few minutes. At length she went to her own special walk and made up her
mind to try if she could skip the whole length of it. It was a good long
skip and she began slowly, but before she had gone half-way down the
path she was so hot and breathless that she was obliged to stop. She did
not mind much, because she had already counted up to thirty. She stopped
with a little laugh of pleasure, and there, lo and behold, was the robin
swaying on a long branch of ivy. He had followed her and he greeted her
with a chirp. As Mary had skipped toward him she felt something heavy in
her pocket strike against her at each jump, and when she saw the robin
she laughed again.

"You showed me where the key was yesterday," she said. "You ought to
show me the door to-day; but I don't believe you know!"

The robin flew from his swinging spray of ivy on to the top of the wall
and he opened his beak and sang a loud, lovely trill, merely to show
off. Nothing in the world is quite as adorably lovely as a robin when
he shows off--and they are nearly always doing it.

Mary Lennox had heard a great deal about Magic in her Ayah's stories,
and she always said that what happened almost at that moment was Magic.

One of the nice little gusts of wind rushed down the walk, and it was a
stronger one than the rest. It was strong enough to wave the branches of
the trees, and it was more than strong enough to sway the trailing
sprays of untrimmed ivy hanging from the wall. Mary had stepped close to
the robin, and suddenly the gust of wind swung aside some loose ivy
trails, and more suddenly still she jumped toward it and caught it in
her hand. This she did because she had seen something under it--a round
knob which had been covered by the leaves hanging over it. It was the
knob of a door.

She put her hands under the leaves and began to pull and push them
aside. Thick as the ivy hung, it nearly all was a loose and swinging
curtain, though some had crept over wood and iron. Mary's heart began to
thump and her hands to shake a little in her delight and excitement. The
robin kept singing and twittering away and tilting his head on one side,
as if he were as excited as she was. What was this under her hands which
was square and made of iron and which her fingers found a hole in?

It was the lock of the door which had been closed ten years and she put
her hand in her pocket, drew out the key and found it fitted the
keyhole. She put the key in and turned it. It took two hands to do it,
but it did turn.

And then she took a long breath and looked behind her up the long walk
to see if any one was coming. No one was coming. No one ever did come,
it seemed, and she took another long breath, because she could not help
it, and she held back the swinging curtain of ivy and pushed back the
door which opened slowly--slowly.

Then she slipped through it, and shut it behind her, and stood with her back against it, looking about her and breathing quite fast with excitement, and wonder, and delight.She was standing _inside_ the secret garden.
Mr Bessel was a partner in the company Bessel, Hart, and Brown, of St Paul's Churchyard. Among those researchers concerned with the study of the mind, he was known as a very thorough investigator, but also as someone always prepared to listen to new ideas. He was unmarried and occupied rooms in the Albany, near Piccadilly. He was particularly interested in the transfer of thought and in apparitions of the living. In November 1896 he and Mr Vincent, of Staple Inn, began experiments to see if it was possible to send an apparition of themselves through space, by the power of thought.



At an arranged time, Mr Bessel shut himself in one of his rooms in the Albany and Mr Vincent in his living room in Staple Inn. Each then fixed his thoughts on the other, and Mr Bessel attempted, by the power of thought, to transfer himself as a 'living ghost' across the space of two miles to Mr Vincent's apartment. On several evenings this was tried without any satisfactory result, but on the fifth or sixth attempt, Mr Vincent did actually see or imagine he saw an apparition of Mr Bessel standing in his room. He noticed that Mr Bessel's face was white, his expression was anxious, and his hair was untidy. For a moment Mr Vincent was too surprised to speak or move, and in that moment the figure seemed to glance over its shoulder and disappear.

They had arranged to attempt to photograph any apparition, but Mr Vincent was too slow to use the camera on the table beside him. However, excited by the first sign of success, he wrote down the exact time and at once took a taxi to the Albany to tell Mr Bessel.

He was surprised to find Br Bessel's outside door open to the night, and lights on in the apartment. More surprising than this, a champagne bottle lay smashed on the floor, a table had been pushed over, and there were black fingermarks on the walls. One of the curtains had been torn down and thrown on to the fire and the smell of burning filled the room.

A shocked Mr Vincent hurried to the porter's house at the entrance to the Albany. 'Where is Mr Bessel?' he asked. 'Do you know that all the furniture is broken in his room?'

The porter said nothing, but came to Mr Bessel's apartment. When he saw the mess, he said, 'I didn't know about this. Mr Bessel's gone away. He's mad!'

He then explained that half an hour previously (at about the time of Mr Bessel's apparition in Mr Vincent's rooms) Mr Bessel had rushed out of the gates of the Albany into Vigo Street and disappeared in the direction of Bond Street.

'And as he went past me,' the porter said, 'he laughed, a sort of gasping laugh, with his mouth open and his eyes staring. He waved his hand, with the fingers bent like claws, and he said in a sort of fierce whisper, "Life!" Just that one word, "Life!"'

'Oh dear,' said Mr Vincent.

He waited for some time but Mr Bessel did not return. After leaving a note, he returned to his own rooms, unable to think of an explanation for Mr Bessel's behaviour. He tried to read but could not, so he went to bed early. When at last he fell into an uneasy sleep, it was at once disturbed by an upsetting dream.

He saw Mr Bessel waving his arms wildly, his face white and afraid. He even believed that he heard his friend calling to him for help. He woke up and lay trembling in the darkness. And when he finally went to sleep again, the dream returned and was even more frightening than before. He awoke with a strong feeling that Mr Bessel was in some terrible danger and needed his help. Further sleep was impossible so, although it was still dark, he got up and dressed, then went out towards Vigo Street to see if Mr Bessel had returned.

As he was going down Long Acre, something made him turn towards Covent Garden market, which was just starting to open. He heard shouting, then saw someone turn the corner and run towards him. He knew at once that it was Mr Bessel - but a much-changed Mr Bessel. He had no hat, his clothes were untidy, and his shirt collar was torn open. He held a walking-stick by the wrong end, and his mouth was pulled into a strange shape.

'Bessel!' cried Vincent.

The running man gave no sign of recognizing either Mr Vincent or his own name. Instead, he hit his friend in the face with the stick. Mr Vincent fell on to the pavement and, when he looked again, Mr Bessel had disappeared. A policeman and several market porters were running after him towards Long Acre.

Mr Vincent got up and was immediately the centre of a crowd of people, anxious to help him and to tell him about the 'madman'. He had suddenly appeared in the middle of the market screaming, 'Life! Life!', hitting left and right with a blood-stained walking-stick, and dancing and shouting with laughter. A boy and two women had broken heads, and he had smashed a man's wrist. Next he had taken a lamp from a coffee shop and thrown it through the post office window before running away laughing.

Mr Vincent wanted to run after his friend and save him from the angry people chasing him. But then news came through the crowd that Mr Bessel had got away.

Mr Vincent returned to his rooms angry and puzzled. It seemed that Mr Bessel must have gone violently mad in the middle of the thought transfer experiment, but why did that make him appear with a sad white face in Mr Vincent's dreams?

He shut himself carefully in his room, lit his fire, washed his injured face, and tried without success to read until night became day. Only then did he go to bed and sleep.

He got up late, his bruised face in considerable pain. There was nothing about Mr Bessel in the morning newspapers and, after a visit to the Albany, where nothing had changed, he went to see Mr Hart, Mr Bessel's partner and friend.

Mr Vincent was surprised to learn that Mr Hart, although he knew nothing of what had happened to his friend, had also been disturbed by dreams of Mr Bessel, white-faced and apparently begging desperately for help.

'I was just going to go and see him at the Albany when you arrived,' said Mr Hart. 'I was sure that something was wrong with him.'

The two men decided to ask about their missing friend at the police station. Here they learned that the police had not caught Mr Bessel, but that he had gone on to smash windows along Tottenham Court Road, had hit a policeman in Hampstead Road, and had then attacked a woman.



All this happened between half fast twelve and quarter to two in the morning. In fact, there was evidence of Mr Bessel's violence through London from the moment he ran from his rooms at half past nine in the evening. But after a quarter to two, when he had been seen running down towards Baker Street, he had suddenly disappeared.



All that day and all that night, Mr Vincent waited for news, but none came. In his dreams that night he again saw Mr Bessel's desperate, tear-stained face, and he also saw other faces, shadowy but evil, that seemed to be chasing Mr Bessel.

It was on the next day, Sunday, that Mr Vincent thought of Mrs Bullock, the medium, who was becoming famous in London at that time. She was staying at the house of Dr Wilson Paget.

Mr Vincent went to the house, but he had hardly mentioned the name of Bessel when Dr Paget interrupted him.

'He communicated with us last night!' said Dr Paget. 'It was at the end of the seance.'

He left the room and returned with a large piece of paper, on which were five words, written by an unsteady hand. But Mr Vincent recognised the writing. It was Mr Bessel's.

'How did you get this?' he asked.



Dr Paget explained. During the seance Mrs Bullock passed into a state of trance, during which she received a message that she wrote on the piece of paper with her left hand.

'George Bessel... Baker Street... help...'



Strangely, neither Dr Paget or the other two people who were present had heard of the disappearance of Mr Bessel. They had put the piece of paper with the many other mysterious messages that Mrs Bullock had delivered.

When Dr Paget heard Mr Vincent's story, he got to work at once to investigate this clue. And indeed, it proved to be a good clue as the missing Mr Bessel was found at the bottom of a large hole near Baker Street Station.

The hole is part of the work to prepare for the new electric railway, and it is protected by a fence nearly twenty feet high. Somehow, Mr Bessel must have climbed this fence before falling dawn the hole.

His arm and leg were broken, but his madness had left him. He was, of course, very weak, and when he saw his rescuers arrive, he could not stop himself crying with relief.

He was taken to a doctor's house in Baker Street and given something to help him sleep. But on the second day he gave a statement, which he has since repeated several times.

To understand it clearly, it is necessary to go back to his experiments with Mr Vincent. Mr Bessel says that he did actually, by the power of thought alone, leave his body and pass into some place or state outside this world.

'At one moment I was sitting in my chair with my eyes tightly shut,' he says, 'fiercely concentrating my mind on Vincent. Then I saw myself outside my body - saw my body near me, but not containing me. I felt I had become a kind of cloud, attached to but not part of my physical body. I could see the Albany and Piccadilly and Regent Street, and all the rooms in the houses, very small and very bright, spread out below me like a little city seen from the sky. What amazed me most is that I saw quite clearly the insides of the houses - saw people eating and drinking, talking, playing cards. I could see everything that went on.'

Those were Mr Bessel's exact words. Forgetting Mr Vincent, he remained for a time observing these things. Then, becoming curious, he reached down with a shadowy arm and attempted to touch a man walking along Vigo Street. But he could not do it, though his finger seemed to pass through the man. Something prevented him, but he finds it difficult to describe what it was. He compares it to a sheet of glass, which stopped him getting through to the physical world again. But one thing impressed him immediately. He was in a world without sound.

His first concern was where he might be. He was out of his physical body, but that was not all. He also believed that he was somewhere out of space altogether. By an enormous effort of thought, he had passed out of his body into a world beyond this world. A world not dreamed of, yet in some strange way lying so close that all things on this earth are clearly visible, both from outside and from within.

It was then he remembered Mr Vincent and turned his mind to travelling in this new body. For a time he was attached to his physical body, and his new strange cloud-body could not break free from it. Then quite suddenly he was free. For a moment everything was hidden by what seemed to be dark clouds. Then through a break in the clouds, he saw his body fall away, and he was moving along in a strange place of shadowy clouds with London spread out beneath them.

But now he became aware that it was not clouds surrounding him, it was faces! Faces of thin shadow, with evil, greedy eyes and ugly smiling lips. Their cloud-like hands tried to catch him as he went past, and the rest of their bodies faded away into the darkness. No sounds came from their mouths. The shadowy Mr Bessel, now filled with terror, passed through this silent moving crowd of eyes and reaching hands.



So ghostly were these faces, so evil their staring eyes, that Mr Bessel did not think of speaking to them. Their expressions were of envy and a hungry desire for life.

And yet, even among these noiseless evil things, he could still think of Mr Vincent. He made a violent effort of thought and suddenly found himself moving towards Staple Inn.

He saw Vincent sitting in his chair by the fire, and for a time he tried to get in front of his friend's eyes, to move objects in his room, to touch him. But Mr Vincent was not aware of him. That strange something that Mr Bessel compared to a sheet of glass separated them.



And at last Mr Bessel did a desperate thing. He could see not only the outside of a man but also within, so he reached out his shadowy hand into, it seemed, his friend's brain.

Mr Vincent sat up suddenly and in an instant Mr Bessel knew that he had been seen. At the same moment Mr Bessel knew that a great evil had happened to his body. He immediately forgot Mr Vincent and flew back to the Albany, and the countless surrounding faces flew with him, like leaves before a storm.

But he was too late. The body he had left - lying there like a dead man - had stood up, using some strength beyond his own. Now it stood with staring eyes, stretching its arms.

For a moment Mr Bessel watched, then he moved towards it. But the sheet of glass stopped him again, and the evil faces around him laughed. The little, round, middle-aged body that had once been his was now dancing with mad delight, throwing his furniture around, tearing his books, smashing bodies.

He watched all this in terrified amazement. Then, with the evil faces crowding round him, he hurried back to Vincent to tell him of the dreadful thing that had happened to him.



But the brain of Vincent was now closed against apparitions as he hurried out into Holborn to call a taxi. Defeated and full of terror, Mr Bessel again flew back to find the body he had left. It was running and shouting happily down the Burlington Arcade. It had Mr Bessel's body, but it was not Mr Bessel. It was an evil spirit out of that strange world beyond our own.



For twenty hours it held possession of Mr Bessel's body, and during that time Mr Bessel's cloud-body, or spirit, was in that mysterious middle world of shadows, looking for help. He spent many hours trying to enter the minds of Mr Vincent and of his friend Mr Hart, but without success. And all the time he was terrified that the body would be killed by its furious owner, and he would have to remain in this shadow-land for ever.

Mr Bessel was not the only human spirit in that place. He met several shadows of men like himself who had lost their bodies and who were wandering in that lost world that is neither life nor death. They could not speak because that world is silent, but he knew that they were men because of their shadowy human shapes, and the sadness of their faces.

But how had they come into that world? And where were their lost bodies? Dr Wilson Paget believes that they are the same spirits of those men who are lost in madness on earth.

At last Mr Bessel came to a place where a little crowd of spirits was gathered. Pushing through them, he saw below a brightly lit room. In this room were four or five men, and a woman sitting awkwardly in a chair with her head thrown back. It was Mrs Bullock, the medium. And he could see a strange light - sometimes bright, sometimes faint - moving about inside her brain. She was talking, and at the same time writing with one hand. And Mr Bessel saw that the human spirits around him were all trying desperately to touch these lighted parts of her brain. When one managed to do this, or another was pushed away, her voice and her writing changed, confusing the spirit messages and making them impossible to understand. But suddenly Mr Bessel understood what was happening. The woman spoke for the spirit that touched her.

Desperately he began to struggle towards her, but he was on the outside of the crowd and could not reach her. So he went away to find out what was happening to his body.

After a long time, he found it at the bottom of a hole in Baker Street with its leg and arm broken. At once Mr Bessel returned to Mrs Bullock and the seance. It was almost finished and many of the shadows were going away in despair. Mr Bessel struggled through them and managed to reach the woman's brain. And in that moment she wrote down the message that Dr Pager kept. After that, the other shadows pushed Mr Bessel away.

He went back to Baker Street and waited, watching the evil spirit inside the body swearing and crying with pain. Then as the night changed to day, the brain shone brightly and the evil spirit came out. And Mr Bessel entered the body he had feared he would never enter again. As he did this, the long silence ended, and he heard the traffic and the voices of people above him. And that strange world that is a shadow of our world - the dark and silent shadow of desire and the shadows of lost men - disappeared.

The first place that I can well remember was a large pleasant meadow
with a pond of clear water in it. Some shady trees leaned over it, and
rushes and water-lilies grew at the deep end. Over the hedge on one side
we looked into a plowed field, and on the other we looked over a gate
at our master's house, which stood by the roadside; at the top of the
meadow was a grove of fir trees, and at the bottom a running brook
overhung by a steep bank.

While I was young I lived upon my mother's milk, as I could not eat
grass. In the daytime I ran by her side, and at night I lay down close
by her. When it was hot we used to stand by the pond in the shade of the
trees, and when it was cold we had a nice warm shed near the grove.

As soon as I was old enough to eat grass my mother used to go out to
work in the daytime, and come back in the evening.

There were six young colts in the meadow besides me; they were older
than I was; some were nearly as large as grown-up horses. I used to run
with them, and had great fun; we used to gallop all together round and
round the field as hard as we could go. Sometimes we had rather rough
play, for they would frequently bite and kick as well as gallop.

One day, when there was a good deal of kicking, my mother whinnied to me
to come to her, and then she said:

“I wish you to pay attention to what I am going to say to you. The colts
who live here are very good colts, but they are cart-horse colts, and
of course they have not learned manners. You have been well-bred
and well-born; your father has a great name in these parts, and
your grandfather won the cup two years at the Newmarket races; your
grandmother had the sweetest temper of any horse I ever knew, and I
think you have never seen me kick or bite. I hope you will grow up
gentle and good, and never learn bad ways; do your work with a good
will, lift your feet up well when you trot, and never bite or kick even
in play.”

I have never forgotten my mother's advice; I knew she was a wise old
horse, and our master thought a great deal of her. Her name was Duchess,
but he often called her Pet.

Our master was a good, kind man. He gave us good food, good lodging, and
kind words; he spoke as kindly to us as he did to his little children.
We were all fond of him, and my mother loved him very much. When she saw
him at the gate she would neigh with joy, and trot up to him. He would
pat and stroke her and say, “Well, old Pet, and how is your little
Darkie?” I was a dull black, so he called me Darkie; then he would give
me a piece of bread, which was very good, and sometimes he brought a
carrot for my mother. All the horses would come to him, but I think we
were his favorites. My mother always took him to the town on a market
day in a light gig.

There was a plowboy, Dick, who sometimes came into our field to pluck
blackberries from the hedge. When he had eaten all he wanted he would
have what he called fun with the colts, throwing stones and sticks at
them to make them gallop. We did not much mind him, for we could gallop
off; but sometimes a stone would hit and hurt us.

One day he was at this game, and did not know that the master was in the
next field; but he was there, watching what was going on; over the hedge
he jumped in a snap, and catching Dick by the arm, he gave him such a
box on the ear as made him roar with the pain and surprise. As soon as
we saw the master we trotted up nearer to see what went on.

“Bad boy!” he said, “bad boy! to chase the colts. This is not the first
time, nor the second, but it shall be the last. There--take your money
and go home; I shall not want you on my farm again.” So we never saw
Dick any more. Old Daniel, the man who looked after the horses, was just
as gentle as our master, so we were well off.




02 The Hunt


Before I was two years old a circumstance happened which I have never
forgotten. It was early in the spring; there had been a little frost in
the night, and a light mist still hung over the woods and meadows. I
and the other colts were feeding at the lower part of the field when
we heard, quite in the distance, what sounded like the cry of dogs. The
oldest of the colts raised his head, pricked his ears, and said, “There
are the hounds!” and immediately cantered off, followed by the rest of
us to the upper part of the field, where we could look over the hedge
and see several fields beyond. My mother and an old riding horse of our
master's were also standing near, and seemed to know all about it.

“They have found a hare,” said my mother, “and if they come this way we
shall see the hunt.”

And soon the dogs were all tearing down the field of young wheat next
to ours. I never heard such a noise as they made. They did not bark, nor
howl, nor whine, but kept on a “yo! yo, o, o! yo! yo, o, o!” at the top
of their voices. After them came a number of men on horseback, some of
them in green coats, all galloping as fast as they could. The old horse
snorted and looked eagerly after them, and we young colts wanted to be
galloping with them, but they were soon away into the fields lower
down; here it seemed as if they had come to a stand; the dogs left off
barking, and ran about every way with their noses to the ground.

“They have lost the scent,” said the old horse; “perhaps the hare will
get off.”

“What hare?” I said.

“Oh! I don't know what hare; likely enough it may be one of our own
hares out of the woods; any hare they can find will do for the dogs and
men to run after;” and before long the dogs began their “yo! yo, o, o!”
 again, and back they came altogether at full speed, making straight for
our meadow at the part where the high bank and hedge overhang the brook.

“Now we shall see the hare,” said my mother; and just then a hare wild
with fright rushed by and made for the woods. On came the dogs; they
burst over the bank, leaped the stream, and came dashing across the
field followed by the huntsmen. Six or eight men leaped their horses
clean over, close upon the dogs. The hare tried to get through the
fence; it was too thick, and she turned sharp round to make for the
road, but it was too late; the dogs were upon her with their wild cries;
we heard one shriek, and that was the end of her. One of the huntsmen
rode up and whipped off the dogs, who would soon have torn her to
pieces. He held her up by the leg torn and bleeding, and all the
gentlemen seemed well pleased.

As for me, I was so astonished that I did not at first see what was
going on by the brook; but when I did look there was a sad sight; two
fine horses were down, one was struggling in the stream, and the other
was groaning on the grass. One of the riders was getting out of the
water covered with mud, the other lay quite still.

“His neck is broke,” said my mother.

“And serve him right, too,” said one of the colts.

I thought the same, but my mother did not join with us.

“Well, no,” she said, “you must not say that; but though I am an old
horse, and have seen and heard a great deal, I never yet could make out
why men are so fond of this sport; they often hurt themselves, often
spoil good horses, and tear up the fields, and all for a hare or a fox,
or a stag, that they could get more easily some other way; but we are
only horses, and don't know.”

While my mother was saying this we stood and looked on. Many of the
riders had gone to the young man; but my master, who had been watching
what was going on, was the first to raise him. His head fell back and
his arms hung down, and every one looked very serious. There was no
noise now; even the dogs were quiet, and seemed to know that something
was wrong. They carried him to our master's house. I heard afterward
that it was young George Gordon, the squire's only son, a fine, tall
young man, and the pride of his family.

There was now riding off in all directions to the doctor's, to the
farrier's, and no doubt to Squire Gordon's, to let him know about his
son. When Mr. Bond, the farrier, came to look at the black horse that
lay groaning on the grass, he felt him all over, and shook his head; one
of his legs was broken. Then some one ran to our master's house and came
back with a gun; presently there was a loud bang and a dreadful shriek,
and then all was still; the black horse moved no more.

My mother seemed much troubled; she said she had known that horse for
years, and that his name was “Rob Roy”; he was a good horse, and
there was no vice in him. She never would go to that part of the field
afterward.

Not many days after we heard the church-bell tolling for a long time,
and looking over the gate we saw a long, strange black coach that was
covered with black cloth and was drawn by black horses; after that came
another and another and another, and all were black, while the bell kept
tolling, tolling. They were carrying young Gordon to the churchyard to
bury him. He would never ride again. What they did with Rob Roy I never
knew; but 'twas all for one little hare.




03 My Breaking In


I was now beginning to grow handsome; my coat had grown fine and soft,
and was bright black. I had one white foot and a pretty white star on my
forehead. I was thought very handsome; my master would not sell me till
I was four years old; he said lads ought not to work like men, and colts
ought not to work like horses till they were quite grown up.

When I was four years old Squire Gordon came to look at me. He examined
my eyes, my mouth, and my legs; he felt them all down; and then I had
to walk and trot and gallop before him. He seemed to like me, and said,
“When he has been well broken in he will do very well.” My master said
he would break me in himself, as he should not like me to be frightened
or hurt, and he lost no time about it, for the next day he began.

Every one may not know what breaking in is, therefore I will describe
it. It means to teach a horse to wear a saddle and bridle, and to carry
on his back a man, woman or child; to go just the way they wish, and to
go quietly. Besides this he has to learn to wear a collar, a crupper,
and a breeching, and to stand still while they are put on; then to have
a cart or a chaise fixed behind, so that he cannot walk or trot without
dragging it after him; and he must go fast or slow, just as his driver
wishes. He must never start at what he sees, nor speak to other horses,
nor bite, nor kick, nor have any will of his own; but always do his
master's will, even though he may be very tired or hungry; but the worst
of all is, when his harness is once on, he may neither jump for joy nor
lie down for weariness. So you see this breaking in is a great thing.

I had of course long been used to a halter and a headstall, and to be
led about in the fields and lanes quietly, but now I was to have a bit
and bridle; my master gave me some oats as usual, and after a good deal
of coaxing he got the bit into my mouth, and the bridle fixed, but it
was a nasty thing! Those who have never had a bit in their mouths cannot
think how bad it feels; a great piece of cold hard steel as thick as
a man's finger to be pushed into one's mouth, between one's teeth, and
over one's tongue, with the ends coming out at the corner of your mouth,
and held fast there by straps over your head, under your throat, round
your nose, and under your chin; so that no way in the world can you get
rid of the nasty hard thing; it is very bad! yes, very bad! at least I
thought so; but I knew my mother always wore one when she went out, and
all horses did when they were grown up; and so, what with the nice oats,
and what with my master's pats, kind words, and gentle ways, I got to
wear my bit and bridle.

Next came the saddle, but that was not half so bad; my master put it
on my back very gently, while old Daniel held my head; he then made the
girths fast under my body, patting and talking to me all the time; then
I had a few oats, then a little leading about; and this he did every
day till I began to look for the oats and the saddle. At length, one
morning, my master got on my back and rode me round the meadow on the
soft grass. It certainly did feel queer; but I must say I felt rather
proud to carry my master, and as he continued to ride me a little every
day I soon became accustomed to it.

The next unpleasant business was putting on the iron shoes; that too was
very hard at first. My master went with me to the smith's forge, to see
that I was not hurt or got any fright. The blacksmith took my feet in
his hand, one after the other, and cut away some of the hoof. It did not
pain me, so I stood still on three legs till he had done them all. Then
he took a piece of iron the shape of my foot, and clapped it on, and
drove some nails through the shoe quite into my hoof, so that the shoe
was firmly on. My feet felt very stiff and heavy, but in time I got used
to it.

And now having got so far, my master went on to break me to harness;
there were more new things to wear. First, a stiff heavy collar just
on my neck, and a bridle with great side-pieces against my eyes called
blinkers, and blinkers indeed they were, for I could not see on either
side, but only straight in front of me; next, there was a small saddle
with a nasty stiff strap that went right under my tail; that was the
crupper. I hated the crupper; to have my long tail doubled up and poked
through that strap was almost as bad as the bit. I never felt more like
kicking, but of course I could not kick such a good master, and so
in time I got used to everything, and could do my work as well as my
mother.

I must not forget to mention one part of my training, which I have
always considered a very great advantage. My master sent me for a
fortnight to a neighboring farmer's, who had a meadow which was skirted
on one side by the railway. Here were some sheep and cows, and I was
turned in among them.

I shall never forget the first train that ran by. I was feeding quietly
near the pales which separated the meadow from the railway, when I heard
a strange sound at a distance, and before I knew whence it came--with
a rush and a clatter, and a puffing out of smoke--a long black train of
something flew by, and was gone almost before I could draw my breath. I
turned and galloped to the further side of the meadow as fast as I could
go, and there I stood snorting with astonishment and fear. In the course
of the day many other trains went by, some more slowly; these drew up
at the station close by, and sometimes made an awful shriek and groan
before they stopped. I thought it very dreadful, but the cows went
on eating very quietly, and hardly raised their heads as the black
frightful thing came puffing and grinding past.

For the first few days I could not feed in peace; but as I found that
this terrible creature never came into the field, or did me any harm, I
began to disregard it, and very soon I cared as little about the passing
of a train as the cows and sheep did.

Since then I have seen many horses much alarmed and restive at the sight
or sound of a steam engine; but thanks to my good master's care, I am as
fearless at railway stations as in my own stable.

Now if any one wants to break in a young horse well, that is the way.

My master often drove me in double harness with my mother, because she
was steady and could teach me how to go better than a strange horse. She
told me the better I behaved the better I should be treated, and that
it was wisest always to do my best to please my master; “but,” said she,
“there are a great many kinds of men; there are good thoughtful men like
our master, that any horse may be proud to serve; and there are bad,
cruel men, who never ought to have a horse or dog to call their own.
Besides, there are a great many foolish men, vain, ignorant, and
careless, who never trouble themselves to think; these spoil more horses
than all, just for want of sense; they don't mean it, but they do it for
all that. I hope you will fall into good hands; but a horse never knows
who may buy him, or who may drive him; it is all a chance for us; but
still I say, do your best wherever it is, and keep up your good name.”




04 Birtwick Park


At this time I used to stand in the stable and my coat was brushed every
day till it shone like a rook's wing. It was early in May, when there
came a man from Squire Gordon's, who took me away to the hall. My master
said, “Good-by, Darkie; be a good horse, and always do your best.” I
could not say “good-by”, so I put my nose into his hand; he patted me
kindly, and I left my first home. As I lived some years with Squire
Gordon, I may as well tell something about the place.

Squire Gordon's park skirted the village of Birtwick. It was entered by
a large iron gate, at which stood the first lodge, and then you trotted
along on a smooth road between clumps of large old trees; then another
lodge and another gate, which brought you to the house and the gardens.
Beyond this lay the home paddock, the old orchard, and the stables.
There was accommodation for many horses and carriages; but I need only
describe the stable into which I was taken; this was very roomy, with
four good stalls; a large swinging window opened into the yard, which
made it pleasant and airy.

The first stall was a large square one, shut in behind with a wooden
gate; the others were common stalls, good stalls, but not nearly so
large; it had a low rack for hay and a low manger for corn; it was
called a loose box, because the horse that was put into it was not tied
up, but left loose, to do as he liked. It is a great thing to have a
loose box.

Into this fine box the groom put me; it was clean, sweet, and airy. I
never was in a better box than that, and the sides were not so high but
that I could see all that went on through the iron rails that were at
the top.

He gave me some very nice oats, he patted me, spoke kindly, and then
went away.

When I had eaten my corn I looked round. In the stall next to mine stood
a little fat gray pony, with a thick mane and tail, a very pretty head,
and a pert little nose.

I put my head up to the iron rails at the top of my box, and said, “How
do you do? What is your name?”

He turned round as far as his halter would allow, held up his head,
and said, “My name is Merrylegs. I am very handsome; I carry the young
ladies on my back, and sometimes I take our mistress out in the low
chair. They think a great deal of me, and so does James. Are you going
to live next door to me in the box?”

I said, “Yes.”

“Well, then,” he said, “I hope you are good-tempered; I do not like any
one next door who bites.”

Just then a horse's head looked over from the stall beyond; the ears
were laid back, and the eye looked rather ill-tempered. This was a tall
chestnut mare, with a long handsome neck. She looked across to me and
said:

“So it is you who have turned me out of my box; it is a very strange
thing for a colt like you to come and turn a lady out of her own home.”

“I beg your pardon,” I said, “I have turned no one out; the man who
brought me put me here, and I had nothing to do with it; and as to my
being a colt, I am turned four years old and am a grown-up horse. I
never had words yet with horse or mare, and it is my wish to live at
peace.”

“Well,” she said, “we shall see. Of course, I do not want to have words
with a young thing like you.” I said no more.

In the afternoon, when she went out, Merrylegs told me all about it.

“The thing is this,” said Merrylegs. “Ginger has a bad habit of biting
and snapping; that is why they call her Ginger, and when she was in the
loose box she used to snap very much. One day she bit James in the arm
and made it bleed, and so Miss Flora and Miss Jessie, who are very fond
of me, were afraid to come into the stable. They used to bring me nice
things to eat, an apple or a carrot, or a piece of bread, but after
Ginger stood in that box they dared not come, and I missed them very
much. I hope they will now come again, if you do not bite or snap.”

I told him I never bit anything but grass, hay, and corn, and could not
think what pleasure Ginger found it.

“Well, I don't think she does find pleasure,” says Merrylegs; “it is
just a bad habit; she says no one was ever kind to her, and why should
she not bite? Of course, it is a very bad habit; but I am sure, if all
she says be true, she must have been very ill-used before she came here.
John does all he can to please her, and James does all he can, and our
master never uses a whip if a horse acts right; so I think she might be
good-tempered here. You see,” he said, with a wise look, “I am twelve
years old; I know a great deal, and I can tell you there is not a better
place for a horse all round the country than this. John is the best
groom that ever was; he has been here fourteen years; and you never saw
such a kind boy as James is; so that it is all Ginger's own fault that
she did not stay in that box.”




05 A Fair Start


The name of the coachman was John Manly; he had a wife and one little
child, and they lived in the coachman's cottage, very near the stables.

The next morning he took me into the yard and gave me a good grooming,
and just as I was going into my box, with my coat soft and bright, the
squire came in to look at me, and seemed pleased. “John,” he said,
“I meant to have tried the new horse this morning, but I have other
business. You may as well take him around after breakfast; go by the
common and the Highwood, and back by the watermill and the river; that
will show his paces.”

“I will, sir,” said John. After breakfast he came and fitted me with a
bridle. He was very particular in letting out and taking in the straps,
to fit my head comfortably; then he brought a saddle, but it was not
broad enough for my back; he saw it in a minute and went for another,
which fitted nicely. He rode me first slowly, then a trot, then a
canter, and when we were on the common he gave me a light touch with his
whip, and we had a splendid gallop.

“Ho, ho! my boy,” he said, as he pulled me up, “you would like to follow
the hounds, I think.”

As we came back through the park we met the Squire and Mrs. Gordon
walking; they stopped, and John jumped off.

“Well, John, how does he go?”

“First-rate, sir,” answered John; “he is as fleet as a deer, and has a
fine spirit too; but the lightest touch of the rein will guide him. Down
at the end of the common we met one of those traveling carts hung all
over with baskets, rugs, and such like; you know, sir, many horses will
not pass those carts quietly; he just took a good look at it, and then
went on as quiet and pleasant as could be. They were shooting rabbits
near the Highwood, and a gun went off close by; he pulled up a little
and looked, but did not stir a step to right or left. I just held the
rein steady and did not hurry him, and it's my opinion he has not been
frightened or ill-used while he was young.”

“That's well,” said the squire, “I will try him myself to-morrow.”

The next day I was brought up for my master. I remembered my mother's
counsel and my good old master's, and I tried to do exactly what he
wanted me to do. I found he was a very good rider, and thoughtful for
his horse too. When he came home the lady was at the hall door as he
rode up.

“Well, my dear,” she said, “how do you like him?”

“He is exactly what John said,” he replied; “a pleasanter creature I
never wish to mount. What shall we call him?”

“Would you like Ebony?” said she; “he is as black as ebony.”

“No, not Ebony.”

“Will you call him Blackbird, like your uncle's old horse?”

“No, he is far handsomer than old Blackbird ever was.”

“Yes,” she said, “he is really quite a beauty, and he has such a sweet,
good-tempered face, and such a fine, intelligent eye--what do you say to
calling him Black Beauty?”

“Black Beauty--why, yes, I think that is a very good name. If you like
it shall be his name;” and so it was.

When John went into the stable he told James that master and mistress
had chosen a good, sensible English name for me, that meant something;
not like Marengo, or Pegasus, or Abdallah. They both laughed, and James
said, “If it was not for bringing back the past, I should have named him
Rob Roy, for I never saw two horses more alike.”

“That's no wonder,” said John; “didn't you know that Farmer Grey's old
Duchess was the mother of them both?”

I had never heard that before; and so poor Rob Roy who was killed
at that hunt was my brother! I did not wonder that my mother was so
troubled. It seems that horses have no relations; at least they never
know each other after they are sold.

John seemed very proud of me; he used to make my mane and tail almost as
smooth as a lady's hair, and he would talk to me a great deal; of course
I did not understand all he said, but I learned more and more to know
what he meant, and what he wanted me to do. I grew very fond of him, he
was so gentle and kind; he seemed to know just how a horse feels, and
when he cleaned me he knew the tender places and the ticklish places;
when he brushed my head he went as carefully over my eyes as if they
were his own, and never stirred up any ill-temper.

James Howard, the stable boy, was just as gentle and pleasant in his
way, so I thought myself well off. There was another man who helped in
the yard, but he had very little to do with Ginger and me.

A few days after this I had to go out with Ginger in the carriage. I
wondered how we should get on together; but except laying her ears
back when I was led up to her, she behaved very well. She did her work
honestly, and did her full share, and I never wish to have a better
partner in double harness. When we came to a hill, instead of slackening
her pace, she would throw her weight right into the collar, and pull
away straight up. We had both the same sort of courage at our work, and
John had oftener to hold us in than to urge us forward; he never had to
use the whip with either of us; then our paces were much the same, and
I found it very easy to keep step with her when trotting, which made it
pleasant, and master always liked it when we kept step well, and so did
John. After we had been out two or three times together we grew quite
friendly and sociable, which made me feel very much at home.

As for Merrylegs, he and I soon became great friends; he was such a
cheerful, plucky, good-tempered little fellow that he was a favorite
with every one, and especially with Miss Jessie and Flora, who used to
ride him about in the orchard, and have fine games with him and their
little dog Frisky.

Our master had two other horses that stood in another stable. One was
Justice, a roan cob, used for riding or for the luggage cart; the other
was an old brown hunter, named Sir Oliver; he was past work now, but was
a great favorite with the master, who gave him the run of the park; he
sometimes did a little light carting on the estate, or carried one of
the young ladies when they rode out with their father, for he was very
gentle and could be trusted with a child as well as Merrylegs. The cob
was a strong, well-made, good-tempered horse, and we sometimes had a
little chat in the paddock, but of course I could not be so intimate
with him as with Ginger, who stood in the same stable.




06 Liberty


I was quite happy in my new place, and if there was one thing that I
missed it must not be thought I was discontented; all who had to do with
me were good and I had a light airy stable and the best of food. What
more could I want? Why, liberty! For three years and a half of my life
I had had all the liberty I could wish for; but now, week after week,
month after month, and no doubt year after year, I must stand up in a
stable night and day except when I am wanted, and then I must be just
as steady and quiet as any old horse who has worked twenty years. Straps
here and straps there, a bit in my mouth, and blinkers over my eyes.
Now, I am not complaining, for I know it must be so. I only mean to say
that for a young horse full of strength and spirits, who has been used
to some large field or plain where he can fling up his head and toss up
his tail and gallop away at full speed, then round and back again with
a snort to his companions--I say it is hard never to have a bit more
liberty to do as you like. Sometimes, when I have had less exercise than
usual, I have felt so full of life and spring that when John has taken
me out to exercise I really could not keep quiet; do what I would, it
seemed as if I must jump, or dance, or prance, and many a good shake I
know I must have given him, especially at the first; but he was always
good and patient.

“Steady, steady, my boy,” he would say; “wait a bit, and we will have a
good swing, and soon get the tickle out of your feet.” Then as soon as
we were out of the village, he would give me a few miles at a spanking
trot, and then bring me back as fresh as before, only clear of the
fidgets, as he called them. Spirited horses, when not enough exercised,
are often called skittish, when it is only play; and some grooms will
punish them, but our John did not; he knew it was only high spirits.
Still, he had his own ways of making me understand by the tone of
his voice or the touch of the rein. If he was very serious and quite
determined, I always knew it by his voice, and that had more power with
me than anything else, for I was very fond of him.

I ought to say that sometimes we had our liberty for a few hours; this
used to be on fine Sundays in the summer-time. The carriage never went
out on Sundays, because the church was not far off.

It was a great treat to us to be turned out into the home paddock or
the old orchard; the grass was so cool and soft to our feet, the air so
sweet, and the freedom to do as we liked was so pleasant--to gallop, to
lie down, and roll over on our backs, or to nibble the sweet grass.
Then it was a very good time for talking, as we stood together under the
shade of the large chestnut tree.




07 Ginger


One day when Ginger and I were standing alone in the shade, we had a
great deal of talk; she wanted to know all about my bringing up and
breaking in, and I told her.

“Well,” said she, “if I had had your bringing up I might have had as
good a temper as you, but now I don't believe I ever shall.”

“Why not?” I said.

“Because it has been all so different with me,” she replied. “I never
had any one, horse or man, that was kind to me, or that I cared to
please, for in the first place I was taken from my mother as soon as I
was weaned, and put with a lot of other young colts; none of them cared
for me, and I cared for none of them. There was no kind master like
yours to look after me, and talk to me, and bring me nice things to eat.
The man that had the care of us never gave me a kind word in my life.
I do not mean that he ill-used me, but he did not care for us one
bit further than to see that we had plenty to eat, and shelter in the
winter. A footpath ran through our field, and very often the great boys
passing through would fling stones to make us gallop. I was never hit,
but one fine young colt was badly cut in the face, and I should think
it would be a scar for life. We did not care for them, but of course
it made us more wild, and we settled it in our minds that boys were our
enemies. We had very good fun in the free meadows, galloping up and down
and chasing each other round and round the field; then standing still
under the shade of the trees. But when it came to breaking in, that was
a bad time for me; several men came to catch me, and when at last they
closed me in at one corner of the field, one caught me by the forelock,
another caught me by the nose and held it so tight I could hardly draw
my breath; then another took my under jaw in his hard hand and wrenched
my mouth open, and so by force they got on the halter and the bar into
my mouth; then one dragged me along by the halter, another flogging
behind, and this was the first experience I had of men's kindness; it
was all force. They did not give me a chance to know what they wanted.
I was high bred and had a great deal of spirit, and was very wild, no
doubt, and gave them, I dare say, plenty of trouble, but then it was
dreadful to be shut up in a stall day after day instead of having my
liberty, and I fretted and pined and wanted to get loose. You know
yourself it's bad enough when you have a kind master and plenty of
coaxing, but there was nothing of that sort for me.

“There was one--the old master, Mr. Ryder--who, I think, could soon have
brought me round, and could have done anything with me; but he had given
up all the hard part of the trade to his son and to another experienced
man, and he only came at times to oversee. His son was a strong, tall,
bold man; they called him Samson, and he used to boast that he had never
found a horse that could throw him. There was no gentleness in him, as
there was in his father, but only hardness, a hard voice, a hard eye, a
hard hand; and I felt from the first that what he wanted was to wear all
the spirit out of me, and just make me into a quiet, humble, obedient
piece of horseflesh. 'Horseflesh'! Yes, that is all that he thought
about,” and Ginger stamped her foot as if the very thought of him made
her angry. Then she went on:

“If I did not do exactly what he wanted he would get put out, and make
me run round with that long rein in the training field till he had
tired me out. I think he drank a good deal, and I am quite sure that the
oftener he drank the worse it was for me. One day he had worked me hard
in every way he could, and when I lay down I was tired, and miserable,
and angry; it all seemed so hard. The next morning he came for me early,
and ran me round again for a long time. I had scarcely had an hour's
rest, when he came again for me with a saddle and bridle and a new kind
of bit. I could never quite tell how it came about; he had only just
mounted me on the training ground, when something I did put him out
of temper, and he chucked me hard with the rein. The new bit was very
painful, and I reared up suddenly, which angered him still more, and he
began to flog me. I felt my whole spirit set against him, and I began
to kick, and plunge, and rear as I had never done before, and we had a
regular fight; for a long time he stuck to the saddle and punished me
cruelly with his whip and spurs, but my blood was thoroughly up, and I
cared for nothing he could do if only I could get him off. At last after
a terrible struggle I threw him off backward. I heard him fall heavily
on the turf, and without looking behind me, I galloped off to the other
end of the field; there I turned round and saw my persecutor slowly
rising from the ground and going into the stable. I stood under an oak
tree and watched, but no one came to catch me. The time went on, and the
sun was very hot; the flies swarmed round me and settled on my bleeding
flanks where the spurs had dug in. I felt hungry, for I had not eaten
since the early morning, but there was not enough grass in that meadow
for a goose to live on. I wanted to lie down and rest, but with the
saddle strapped tightly on there was no comfort, and there was not a
drop of water to drink. The afternoon wore on, and the sun got low. I
saw the other colts led in, and I knew they were having a good feed.

“At last, just as the sun went down, I saw the old master come out with
a sieve in his hand. He was a very fine old gentleman with quite white
hair, but his voice was what I should know him by among a thousand. It
was not high, nor yet low, but full, and clear, and kind, and when
he gave orders it was so steady and decided that every one knew, both
horses and men, that he expected to be obeyed. He came quietly along,
now and then shaking the oats about that he had in the sieve, and
speaking cheerfully and gently to me: 'Come along, lassie, come along,
lassie; come along, come along.' I stood still and let him come up; he
held the oats to me, and I began to eat without fear; his voice took all
my fear away. He stood by, patting and stroking me while I was eating,
and seeing the clots of blood on my side he seemed very vexed. 'Poor
lassie! it was a bad business, a bad business;' then he quietly took the
rein and led me to the stable; just at the door stood Samson. I laid my
ears back and snapped at him. 'Stand back,' said the master, 'and keep
out of her way; you've done a bad day's work for this filly.' He growled
out something about a vicious brute. 'Hark ye,' said the father, 'a
bad-tempered man will never make a good-tempered horse. You've not
learned your trade yet, Samson.' Then he led me into my box, took off
the saddle and bridle with his own hands, and tied me up; then he called
for a pail of warm water and a sponge, took off his coat, and while the
stable-man held the pail, he sponged my sides a good while, so tenderly
that I was sure he knew how sore and bruised they were. 'Whoa! my pretty
one,' he said, 'stand still, stand still.' His very voice did me good,
and the bathing was very comfortable. The skin was so broken at the
corners of my mouth that I could not eat the hay, the stalks hurt me. He
looked closely at it, shook his head, and told the man to fetch a good
bran mash and put some meal into it. How good that mash was! and so soft
and healing to my mouth. He stood by all the time I was eating, stroking
me and talking to the man. 'If a high-mettled creature like this,'
said he, 'can't be broken by fair means, she will never be good for
anything.'

“After that he often came to see me, and when my mouth was healed the
other breaker, Job, they called him, went on training me; he was steady
and thoughtful, and I soon learned what he wanted.”




08 Ginger's Story Continued


The next time that Ginger and I were together in the paddock she told me
about her first place.

“After my breaking in,” she said, “I was bought by a dealer to match
another chestnut horse. For some weeks he drove us together, and then we
were sold to a fashionable gentleman, and were sent up to London. I had
been driven with a check-rein by the dealer, and I hated it worse
than anything else; but in this place we were reined far tighter, the
coachman and his master thinking we looked more stylish so. We were
often driven about in the park and other fashionable places. You who
never had a check-rein on don't know what it is, but I can tell you it
is dreadful.

“I like to toss my head about and hold it as high as any horse; but
fancy now yourself, if you tossed your head up high and were obliged to
hold it there, and that for hours together, not able to move it at all,
except with a jerk still higher, your neck aching till you did not know
how to bear it. Besides that, to have two bits instead of one--and mine
was a sharp one, it hurt my tongue and my jaw, and the blood from my
tongue colored the froth that kept flying from my lips as I chafed and
fretted at the bits and rein. It was worst when we had to stand by the
hour waiting for our mistress at some grand party or entertainment, and
if I fretted or stamped with impatience the whip was laid on. It was
enough to drive one mad.”

“Did not your master take any thought for you?” I said.

“No,” said she, “he only cared to have a stylish turnout, as they
call it; I think he knew very little about horses; he left that to his
coachman, who told him I had an irritable temper! that I had not been
well broken to the check-rein, but I should soon get used to it; but he
was not the man to do it, for when I was in the stable, miserable and
angry, instead of being smoothed and quieted by kindness, I got only a
surly word or a blow. If he had been civil I would have tried to
bear it. I was willing to work, and ready to work hard too; but to be
tormented for nothing but their fancies angered me. What right had they
to make me suffer like that? Besides the soreness in my mouth, and
the pain in my neck, it always made my windpipe feel bad, and if I had
stopped there long I know it would have spoiled my breathing; but I grew
more and more restless and irritable, I could not help it; and I began
to snap and kick when any one came to harness me; for this the groom
beat me, and one day, as they had just buckled us into the carriage,
and were straining my head up with that rein, I began to plunge and
kick with all my might. I soon broke a lot of harness, and kicked myself
clear; so that was an end of that place.

“After this I was sent to Tattersall's to be sold; of course I could not
be warranted free from vice, so nothing was said about that. My handsome
appearance and good paces soon brought a gentleman to bid for me, and I
was bought by another dealer; he tried me in all kinds of ways and with
different bits, and he soon found out what I could not bear. At last
he drove me quite without a check-rein, and then sold me as a perfectly
quiet horse to a gentleman in the country; he was a good master, and I
was getting on very well, but his old groom left him and a new one came.
This man was as hard-tempered and hard-handed as Samson; he always spoke
in a rough, impatient voice, and if I did not move in the stall the
moment he wanted me, he would hit me above the hocks with his stable
broom or the fork, whichever he might have in his hand. Everything he
did was rough, and I began to hate him; he wanted to make me afraid
of him, but I was too high-mettled for that, and one day when he had
aggravated me more than usual I bit him, which of course put him in a
great rage, and he began to hit me about the head with a riding whip.
After that he never dared to come into my stall again; either my heels
or my teeth were ready for him, and he knew it. I was quite quiet with
my master, but of course he listened to what the man said, and so I was
sold again.

“The same dealer heard of me, and said he thought he knew one place
where I should do well. ''Twas a pity,' he said, 'that such a fine horse
should go to the bad, for want of a real good chance,' and the end of it
was that I came here not long before you did; but I had then made up my
mind that men were my natural enemies and that I must defend myself. Of
course it is very different here, but who knows how long it will last? I
wish I could think about things as you do; but I can't, after all I have
gone through.”

“Well,” I said, “I think it would be a real shame if you were to bite or
kick John or James.”

“I don't mean to,” she said, “while they are good to me. I did bite
James once pretty sharp, but John said, 'Try her with kindness,' and
instead of punishing me as I expected, James came to me with his arm
bound up, and brought me a bran mash and stroked me; and I have never
snapped at him since, and I won't either.”

I was sorry for Ginger, but of course I knew very little then, and I
thought most likely she made the worst of it; however, I found that as
the weeks went on she grew much more gentle and cheerful, and had lost
the watchful, defiant look that she used to turn on any strange person
who came near her; and one day James said, “I do believe that mare is
getting fond of me, she quite whinnied after me this morning when I had
been rubbing her forehead.”

“Ay, ay, Jim, 'tis 'the Birtwick balls',” said John, “she'll be as good
as Black Beauty by and by; kindness is all the physic she wants, poor
thing!” Master noticed the change, too, and one day when he got out of
the carriage and came to speak to us, as he often did, he stroked her
beautiful neck. “Well, my pretty one, well, how do things go with you
now? You are a good bit happier than when you came to us, I think.”

She put her nose up to him in a friendly, trustful way, while he rubbed
it gently.

“We shall make a cure of her, John,” he said.

“Yes, sir, she's wonderfully improved; she's not the same creature that
she was; it's 'the Birtwick balls', sir,” said John, laughing.

This was a little joke of John's; he used to say that a regular course
of “the Birtwick horseballs” would cure almost any vicious horse; these
balls, he said, were made up of patience and gentleness, firmness and
petting, one pound of each to be mixed up with half a pint of common
sense, and given to the horse every day.




09 Merrylegs


Mr. Blomefield, the vicar, had a large family of boys and girls;
sometimes they used to come and play with Miss Jessie and Flora. One
of the girls was as old as Miss Jessie; two of the boys were older, and
there were several little ones. When they came there was plenty of work
for Merrylegs, for nothing pleased them so much as getting on him by
turns and riding him all about the orchard and the home paddock, and
this they would do by the hour together.

One afternoon he had been out with them a long time, and when James
brought him in and put on his halter he said:

“There, you rogue, mind how you behave yourself, or we shall get into
trouble.”

“What have you been doing, Merrylegs?” I asked.

“Oh!” said he, tossing his little head, “I have only been giving those
young people a lesson; they did not know when they had had enough, nor
when I had had enough, so I just pitched them off backward; that was the
only thing they could understand.”

“What!” said I, “you threw the children off? I thought you did know
better than that! Did you throw Miss Jessie or Miss Flora?”

He looked very much offended, and said:

“Of course not; I would not do such a thing for the best oats that ever
came into the stable; why, I am as careful of our young ladies as the
master could be, and as for the little ones it is I who teach them to
ride. When they seem frightened or a little unsteady on my back I go as
smooth and as quiet as old pussy when she is after a bird; and when they
are all right I go on again faster, you see, just to use them to it; so
don't you trouble yourself preaching to me; I am the best friend and the
best riding-master those children have. It is not them, it is the boys;
boys,” said he, shaking his mane, “are quite different; they must be
broken in as we were broken in when we were colts, and just be taught
what's what. The other children had ridden me about for nearly two
hours, and then the boys thought it was their turn, and so it was, and
I was quite agreeable. They rode me by turns, and I galloped them about,
up and down the fields and all about the orchard, for a good hour. They
had each cut a great hazel stick for a riding-whip, and laid it on a
little too hard; but I took it in good part, till at last I thought we
had had enough, so I stopped two or three times by way of a hint.
Boys, you see, think a horse or pony is like a steam-engine or a
thrashing-machine, and can go on as long and as fast as they please;
they never think that a pony can get tired, or have any feelings; so as
the one who was whipping me could not understand I just rose up on
my hind legs and let him slip off behind--that was all. He mounted me
again, and I did the same. Then the other boy got up, and as soon as
he began to use his stick I laid him on the grass, and so on, till they
were able to understand--that was all. They are not bad boys; they don't
wish to be cruel. I like them very well; but you see I had to give them
a lesson. When they brought me to James and told him I think he was very
angry to see such big sticks. He said they were only fit for drovers or
gypsies, and not for young gentlemen.”

“If I had been you,” said Ginger, “I would have given those boys a good
kick, and that would have given them a lesson.”

“No doubt you would,” said Merrylegs; “but then I am not quite such a
fool (begging your pardon) as to anger our master or make James ashamed
of me. Besides, those children are under my charge when they are riding;
I tell you they are intrusted to me. Why, only the other day I heard our
master say to Mrs. Blomefield, 'My dear madam, you need not be anxious
about the children; my old Merrylegs will take as much care of them as
you or I could; I assure you I would not sell that pony for any money,
he is so perfectly good-tempered and trustworthy;' and do you think I am
such an ungrateful brute as to forget all the kind treatment I have
had here for five years, and all the trust they place in me, and turn
vicious because a couple of ignorant boys used me badly? No, no! you
never had a good place where they were kind to you, and so you don't
know, and I'm sorry for you; but I can tell you good places make good
horses. I wouldn't vex our people for anything; I love them, I do,” said
Merrylegs, and he gave a low “ho, ho, ho!” through his nose, as he used
to do in the morning when he heard James' footstep at the door.

“Besides,” he went on, “if I took to kicking where should I be? Why,
sold off in a jiffy, and no character, and I might find myself slaved
about under a butcher's boy, or worked to death at some seaside place
where no one cared for me, except to find out how fast I could go, or be
flogged along in some cart with three or four great men in it going out
for a Sunday spree, as I have often seen in the place I lived in before
I came here; no,” said he, shaking his head, “I hope I shall never come
to that.”




10 A Talk in the Orchard


Ginger and I were not of the regular tall carriage horse breed, we had
more of the racing blood in us. We stood about fifteen and a half hands
high; we were therefore just as good for riding as we were for driving,
and our master used to say that he disliked either horse or man that
could do but one thing; and as he did not want to show off in London
parks, he preferred a more active and useful kind of horse. As for us,
our greatest pleasure was when we were saddled for a riding party; the
master on Ginger, the mistress on me, and the young ladies on Sir Oliver
and Merrylegs. It was so cheerful to be trotting and cantering all
together that it always put us in high spirits. I had the best of it,
for I always carried the mistress; her weight was little, her voice was
sweet, and her hand was so light on the rein that I was guided almost
without feeling it.

Oh! if people knew what a comfort to horses a light hand is, and how it
keeps a good mouth and a good temper, they surely would not chuck, and
drag, and pull at the rein as they often do. Our mouths are so tender
that where they have not been spoiled or hardened with bad or ignorant
treatment, they feel the slightest movement of the driver's hand, and
we know in an instant what is required of us. My mouth has never been
spoiled, and I believe that was why the mistress preferred me to Ginger,
although her paces were certainly quite as good. She used often to envy
me, and said it was all the fault of breaking in, and the gag bit in
London, that her mouth was not so perfect as mine; and then old Sir
Oliver would say, “There, there! don't vex yourself; you have the
greatest honor; a mare that can carry a tall man of our master's weight,
with all your spring and sprightly action, does not need to hold her
head down because she does not carry the lady; we horses must take
things as they come, and always be contented and willing so long as we
are kindly used.”

I had often wondered how it was that Sir Oliver had such a very short
tail; it really was only six or seven inches long, with a tassel of hair
hanging from it; and on one of our holidays in the orchard I ventured to
ask him by what accident it was that he had lost his tail. “Accident!”
 he snorted with a fierce look, “it was no accident! it was a cruel,
shameful, cold-blooded act! When I was young I was taken to a place
where these cruel things were done; I was tied up, and made fast so that
I could not stir, and then they came and cut off my long and beautiful
tail, through the flesh and through the bone, and took it away.

“How dreadful!” I exclaimed.

“Dreadful, ah! it was dreadful; but it was not only the pain, though
that was terrible and lasted a long time; it was not only the indignity
of having my best ornament taken from me, though that was bad; but it
was this, how could I ever brush the flies off my sides and my hind legs
any more? You who have tails just whisk the flies off without thinking
about it, and you can't tell what a torment it is to have them settle
upon you and sting and sting, and have nothing in the world to lash them
off with. I tell you it is a lifelong wrong, and a lifelong loss; but
thank heaven, they don't do it now.”

“What did they do it for then?” said Ginger.

“For fashion!” said the old horse with a stamp of his foot; “for
fashion! if you know what that means; there was not a well-bred young
horse in my time that had not his tail docked in that shameful way, just
as if the good God that made us did not know what we wanted and what
looked best.”

“I suppose it is fashion that makes them strap our heads up with those
horrid bits that I was tortured with in London,” said Ginger.

“Of course it is,” said he; “to my mind, fashion is one of the wickedest
things in the world. Now look, for instance, at the way they serve dogs,
cutting off their tails to make them look plucky, and shearing up their
pretty little ears to a point to make them both look sharp, forsooth. I
had a dear friend once, a brown terrier; 'Skye' they called her. She was
so fond of me that she never would sleep out of my stall; she made
her bed under the manger, and there she had a litter of five as pretty
little puppies as need be; none were drowned, for they were a valuable
kind, and how pleased she was with them! and when they got their eyes
open and crawled about, it was a real pretty sight; but one day the man
came and took them all away; I thought he might be afraid I should tread
upon them. But it was not so; in the evening poor Skye brought them back
again, one by one in her mouth; not the happy little things that they
were, but bleeding and crying pitifully; they had all had a piece of
their tails cut off, and the soft flap of their pretty little ears was
cut quite off. How their mother licked them, and how troubled she was,
poor thing! I never forgot it. They healed in time, and they forgot the
pain, but the nice soft flap, that of course was intended to protect the
delicate part of their ears from dust and injury, was gone forever. Why
don't they cut their own children's ears into points to make them look
sharp? Why don't they cut the end off their noses to make them look
plucky? One would be just as sensible as the other. What right have they
to torment and disfigure God's creatures?”

Sir Oliver, though he was so gentle, was a fiery old fellow, and what
he said was all so new to me, and so dreadful, that I found a bitter
feeling toward men rise up in my mind that I never had before. Of course
Ginger was very much excited; she flung up her head with flashing
eyes and distended nostrils, declaring that men were both brutes and
blockheads.

“Who talks about blockheads?” said Merrylegs, who just came up from
the old apple-tree, where he had been rubbing himself against the low
branch. “Who talks about blockheads? I believe that is a bad word.”

“Bad words were made for bad things,” said Ginger, and she told him what
Sir Oliver had said.

“It is all true,” said Merrylegs sadly, “and I've seen that about the
dogs over and over again where I lived first; but we won't talk about
it here. You know that master, and John and James are always good to
us, and talking against men in such a place as this doesn't seem fair
or grateful, and you know there are good masters and good grooms beside
ours, though of course ours are the best.”

This wise speech of good little Merrylegs, which we knew was quite true,
cooled us all down, especially Sir Oliver, who was dearly fond of his
master; and to turn the subject I said, “Can any one tell me the use of
blinkers?”

“No!” said Sir Oliver shortly, “because they are no use.”

“They are supposed,” said Justice, the roan cob, in his calm way, “to
prevent horses from shying and starting, and getting so frightened as to
cause accidents.”

“Then what is the reason they do not put them on riding horses;
especially on ladies' horses?” said I.

“There is no reason at all,” said he quietly, “except the fashion; they
say that a horse would be so frightened to see the wheels of his own
cart or carriage coming behind him that he would be sure to run away,
although of course when he is ridden he sees them all about him if the
streets are crowded. I admit they do sometimes come too close to be
pleasant, but we don't run away; we are used to it, and understand it,
and if we never had blinkers put on we should never want them; we should
see what was there, and know what was what, and be much less frightened
than by only seeing bits of things that we can't understand. Of course
there may be some nervous horses who have been hurt or frightened when
they were young, who may be the better for them; but as I never was
nervous, I can't judge.”

“I consider,” said Sir Oliver, “that blinkers are dangerous things in
the night; we horses can see much better in the dark than men can, and
many an accident would never have happened if horses might have had the
full use of their eyes. Some years ago, I remember, there was a hearse
with two horses returning one dark night, and just by Farmer Sparrow's
house, where the pond is close to the road, the wheels went too near the
edge, and the hearse was overturned into the water; both the horses were
drowned, and the driver hardly escaped. Of course after this accident
a stout white rail was put up that might be easily seen, but if those
horses had not been partly blinded, they would of themselves have kept
further from the edge, and no accident would have happened. When our
master's carriage was overturned, before you came here, it was said that
if the lamp on the left side had not gone out, John would have seen the
great hole that the road-makers had left; and so he might, but if old
Colin had not had blinkers on he would have seen it, lamp or no lamp,
for he was far too knowing an old horse to run into danger. As it was,
he was very much hurt, the carriage was broken, and how John escaped
nobody knew.”

“I should say,” said Ginger, curling her nostril, “that these men, who
are so wise, had better give orders that in the future all foals should
be born with their eyes set just in the middle of their foreheads,
instead of on the side; they always think they can improve upon nature
and mend what God has made.”

Things were getting rather sore again, when Merrylegs held up his
knowing little face and said, “I'll tell you a secret: I believe John
does not approve of blinkers; I heard him talking with master about it
one day. The master said that 'if horses had been used to them, it might
be dangerous in some cases to leave them off'; and John said he thought
it would be a good thing if all colts were broken in without blinkers,
as was the case in some foreign countries. So let us cheer up, and have
a run to the other end of the orchard; I believe the wind has blown down
some apples, and we might just as well eat them as the slugs.”

Merrylegs could not be resisted, so we broke off our long conversation,
and got up our spirits by munching some very sweet apples which lay
scattered on the grass.




11 Plain Speaking


The longer I lived at Birtwick the more proud and happy I felt at having
such a place. Our master and mistress were respected and beloved by all
who knew them; they were good and kind to everybody and everything; not
only men and women, but horses and donkeys, dogs and cats, cattle and
birds; there was no oppressed or ill-used creature that had not a friend
in them, and their servants took the same tone. If any of the village
children were known to treat any creature cruelly they soon heard about
it from the Hall.

The squire and Farmer Grey had worked together, as they said, for more
than twenty years to get check-reins on the cart-horses done away with,
and in our parts you seldom saw them; and sometimes, if mistress met
a heavily laden horse with his head strained up she would stop the
carriage and get out, and reason with the driver in her sweet serious
voice, and try to show him how foolish and cruel it was.

I don't think any man could withstand our mistress. I wish all ladies
were like her. Our master, too, used to come down very heavy sometimes.
I remember he was riding me toward home one morning when we saw a
powerful man driving toward us in a light pony chaise, with a beautiful
little bay pony, with slender legs and a high-bred sensitive head and
face. Just as he came to the park gates the little thing turned toward
them; the man, without word or warning, wrenched the creature's head
round with such a force and suddenness that he nearly threw it on its
haunches. Recovering itself it was going on, when he began to lash it
furiously. The pony plunged forward, but the strong, heavy hand held the
pretty creature back with force almost enough to break its jaw, while
the whip still cut into him. It was a dreadful sight to me, for I knew
what fearful pain it gave that delicate little mouth; but master gave me
the word, and we were up with him in a second.

“Sawyer,” he cried in a stern voice, “is that pony made of flesh and
blood?”

“Flesh and blood and temper,” he said; “he's too fond of his own will,
and that won't suit me.” He spoke as if he was in a strong passion. He
was a builder who had often been to the park on business.

“And do you think,” said master sternly, “that treatment like this will
make him fond of your will?”

“He had no business to make that turn; his road was straight on!” said
the man roughly.

“You have often driven that pony up to my place,” said master; “it only
shows the creature's memory and intelligence; how did he know that you
were not going there again? But that has little to do with it. I must
say, Mr. Sawyer, that a more unmanly, brutal treatment of a little
pony it was never my painful lot to witness, and by giving way to such
passion you injure your own character as much, nay more, than you injure
your horse; and remember, we shall all have to be judged according to
our works, whether they be toward man or toward beast.”

Master rode me home slowly, and I could tell by his voice how the thing
had grieved him. He was just as free to speak to gentlemen of his own
rank as to those below him; for another day, when we were out, we met
a Captain Langley, a friend of our master's; he was driving a splendid
pair of grays in a kind of break. After a little conversation the
captain said:

“What do you think of my new team, Mr. Douglas? You know, you are the
judge of horses in these parts, and I should like your opinion.”

The master backed me a little, so as to get a good view of them. “They
are an uncommonly handsome pair,” he said, “and if they are as good as
they look I am sure you need not wish for anything better; but I see
you still hold that pet scheme of yours for worrying your horses and
lessening their power.”

“What do you mean,” said the other, “the check-reins? Oh, ah! I know
that's a hobby of yours; well, the fact is, I like to see my horses hold
their heads up.”

“So do I,” said master, “as well as any man, but I don't like to
see them held up; that takes all the shine out of it. Now, you are a
military man, Langley, and no doubt like to see your regiment look well
on parade, 'heads up', and all that; but you would not take much credit
for your drill if all your men had their heads tied to a backboard! It
might not be much harm on parade, except to worry and fatigue them; but
how would it be in a bayonet charge against the enemy, when they want
the free use of every muscle, and all their strength thrown forward? I
would not give much for their chance of victory. And it is just the same
with horses: you fret and worry their tempers, and decrease their power;
you will not let them throw their weight against their work, and so
they have to do too much with their joints and muscles, and of course
it wears them up faster. You may depend upon it, horses were intended
to have their heads free, as free as men's are; and if we could act a
little more according to common sense, and a good deal less according
to fashion, we should find many things work easier; besides, you know as
well as I that if a horse makes a false step, he has much less chance
of recovering himself if his head and neck are fastened back. And now,”
 said the master, laughing, “I have given my hobby a good trot out, can't
you make up your mind to mount him, too, captain? Your example would go
a long way.”

“I believe you are right in theory,” said the other, “and that's rather
a hard hit about the soldiers; but--well--I'll think about it,” and so
they parted.




12 A Stormy Day


One day late in the autumn my master had a long journey to go on
business. I was put into the dog-cart, and John went with his master. I
always liked to go in the dog-cart, it was so light and the high wheels
ran along so pleasantly. There had been a great deal of rain, and now
the wind was very high and blew the dry leaves across the road in a
shower. We went along merrily till we came to the toll-bar and the low
wooden bridge. The river banks were rather high, and the bridge, instead
of rising, went across just level, so that in the middle, if the river
was full, the water would be nearly up to the woodwork and planks; but
as there were good substantial rails on each side, people did not mind
it.

The man at the gate said the river was rising fast, and he feared it
would be a bad night. Many of the meadows were under water, and in one
low part of the road the water was halfway up to my knees; the bottom
was good, and master drove gently, so it was no matter.

When we got to the town of course I had a good bait, but as the master's
business engaged him a long time we did not start for home till rather
late in the afternoon. The wind was then much higher, and I heard the
master say to John that he had never been out in such a storm; and so I
thought, as we went along the skirts of a wood, where the great branches
were swaying about like twigs, and the rushing sound was terrible.

“I wish we were well out of this wood,” said my master.

“Yes, sir,” said John, “it would be rather awkward if one of these
branches came down upon us.”

The words were scarcely out of his mouth when there was a groan, and a
crack, and a splitting sound, and tearing, crashing down among the other
trees came an oak, torn up by the roots, and it fell right across the
road just before us. I will never say I was not frightened, for I was. I
stopped still, and I believe I trembled; of course I did not turn round
or run away; I was not brought up to that. John jumped out and was in a
moment at my head.

“That was a very near touch,” said my master. “What's to be done now?”

“Well, sir, we can't drive over that tree, nor yet get round it; there
will be nothing for it, but to go back to the four crossways, and that
will be a good six miles before we get round to the wooden bridge again;
it will make us late, but the horse is fresh.”

So back we went and round by the crossroads, but by the time we got to
the bridge it was very nearly dark; we could just see that the water was
over the middle of it; but as that happened sometimes when the floods
were out, master did not stop. We were going along at a good pace, but
the moment my feet touched the first part of the bridge I felt sure
there was something wrong. I dare not go forward, and I made a dead
stop. “Go on, Beauty,” said my master, and he gave me a touch with the
whip, but I dare not stir; he gave me a sharp cut; I jumped, but I dare
not go forward.

“There's something wrong, sir,” said John, and he sprang out of the
dog-cart and came to my head and looked all about. He tried to lead me
forward. “Come on, Beauty, what's the matter?” Of course I could not
tell him, but I knew very well that the bridge was not safe.

Just then the man at the toll-gate on the other side ran out of the
house, tossing a torch about like one mad.

“Hoy, hoy, hoy! halloo! stop!” he cried.

“What's the matter?” shouted my master.

“The bridge is broken in the middle, and part of it is carried away; if
you come on you'll be into the river.”

“Thank God!” said my master. “You Beauty!” said John, and took the
bridle and gently turned me round to the right-hand road by the river
side. The sun had set some time; the wind seemed to have lulled off
after that furious blast which tore up the tree. It grew darker and
darker, stiller and stiller. I trotted quietly along, the wheels hardly
making a sound on the soft road. For a good while neither master nor
John spoke, and then master began in a serious voice. I could not
understand much of what they said, but I found they thought, if I had
gone on as the master wanted me, most likely the bridge would have given
way under us, and horse, chaise, master, and man would have fallen into
the river; and as the current was flowing very strongly, and there was
no light and no help at hand, it was more than likely we should all have
been drowned. Master said, God had given men reason, by which they could
find out things for themselves; but he had given animals knowledge which
did not depend on reason, and which was much more prompt and perfect in
its way, and by which they had often saved the lives of men. John had
many stories to tell of dogs and horses, and the wonderful things they
had done; he thought people did not value their animals half enough nor
make friends of them as they ought to do. I am sure he makes friends of
them if ever a man did.

At last we came to the park gates and found the gardener looking out for
us. He said that mistress had been in a dreadful way ever since dark,
fearing some accident had happened, and that she had sent James off on
Justice, the roan cob, toward the wooden bridge to make inquiry after
us.

We saw a light at the hall-door and at the upper windows, and as we came
up mistress ran out, saying, “Are you really safe, my dear? Oh! I
have been so anxious, fancying all sorts of things. Have you had no
accident?”

“No, my dear; but if your Black Beauty had not been wiser than we were
we should all have been carried down the river at the wooden bridge.”
 I heard no more, as they went into the house, and John took me to the
stable. Oh, what a good supper he gave me that night, a good bran mash
and some crushed beans with my oats, and such a thick bed of straw! and
I was glad of it, for I was tired.




13 The Devil's Trade Mark


One day when John and I had been out on some business of our master's,
and were returning gently on a long, straight road, at some distance we
saw a boy trying to leap a pony over a gate; the pony would not take the
leap, and the boy cut him with the whip, but he only turned off on one
side. He whipped him again, but the pony turned off on the other side.
Then the boy got off and gave him a hard thrashing, and knocked him
about the head; then he got up again and tried to make him leap the
gate, kicking him all the time shamefully, but still the pony refused.
When we were nearly at the spot the pony put down his head and threw up
his heels, and sent the boy neatly over into a broad quickset hedge, and
with the rein dangling from his head he set off home at a full gallop.
John laughed out quite loud. “Served him right,” he said.

“Oh, oh, oh!” cried the boy as he struggled about among the thorns; “I
say, come and help me out.”

“Thank ye,” said John, “I think you are quite in the right place, and
maybe a little scratching will teach you not to leap a pony over a gate
that is too high for him,” and so with that John rode off. “It may be,”
 said he to himself, “that young fellow is a liar as well as a cruel one;
we'll just go home by Farmer Bushby's, Beauty, and then if anybody wants
to know you and I can tell 'em, ye see.” So we turned off to the right,
and soon came up to the stack-yard, and within sight of the house. The
farmer was hurrying out into the road, and his wife was standing at the
gate, looking very frightened.

“Have you seen my boy?” said Mr. Bushby as we came up; “he went out an
hour ago on my black pony, and the creature is just come back without a
rider.”

“I should think, sir,” said John, “he had better be without a rider,
unless he can be ridden properly.”

“What do you mean?” said the farmer.

“Well, sir, I saw your son whipping, and kicking, and knocking that good
little pony about shamefully because he would not leap a gate that was
too high for him. The pony behaved well, sir, and showed no vice; but at
last he just threw up his heels and tipped the young gentleman into the
thorn hedge. He wanted me to help him out, but I hope you will excuse
me, sir, I did not feel inclined to do so. There's no bones broken, sir;
he'll only get a few scratches. I love horses, and it riles me to see
them badly used; it is a bad plan to aggravate an animal till he uses
his heels; the first time is not always the last.”

During this time the mother began to cry, “Oh, my poor Bill, I must go
and meet him; he must be hurt.”

“You had better go into the house, wife,” said the farmer; “Bill wants a
lesson about this, and I must see that he gets it; this is not the first
time, nor the second, that he has ill-used that pony, and I shall stop
it. I am much obliged to you, Manly. Good-evening.”

So we went on, John chuckling all the way home; then he told James about
it, who laughed and said, “Serve him right. I knew that boy at school;
he took great airs on himself because he was a farmer's son; he used to
swagger about and bully the little boys. Of course, we elder ones would
not have any of that nonsense, and let him know that in the school and
the playground farmers' sons and laborers' sons were all alike. I well
remember one day, just before afternoon school, I found him at the large
window catching flies and pulling off their wings. He did not see me and
I gave him a box on the ears that laid him sprawling on the floor. Well,
angry as I was, I was almost frightened, he roared and bellowed in such
a style. The boys rushed in from the playground, and the master ran in
from the road to see who was being murdered. Of course I said fair and
square at once what I had done, and why; then I showed the master the
flies, some crushed and some crawling about helpless, and I showed him
the wings on the window sill. I never saw him so angry before; but as
Bill was still howling and whining, like the coward that he was, he did
not give him any more punishment of that kind, but set him up on a stool
for the rest of the afternoon, and said that he should not go out to
play for that week. Then he talked to all the boys very seriously about
cruelty, and said how hard-hearted and cowardly it was to hurt the
weak and the helpless; but what stuck in my mind was this, he said that
cruelty was the devil's own trade-mark, and if we saw any one who took
pleasure in cruelty we might know who he belonged to, for the devil was
a murderer from the beginning, and a tormentor to the end. On the other
hand, where we saw people who loved their neighbors, and were kind to
man and beast, we might know that was God's mark.”

“Your master never taught you a truer thing,” said John; “there is no
religion without love, and people may talk as much as they like about
their religion, but if it does not teach them to be good and kind to man
and beast it is all a sham--all a sham, James, and it won't stand when
things come to be turned inside out.”




14 James Howard


Early one morning in December John had just led me into my box after my
daily exercise, and was strapping my cloth on and James was coming in
from the corn chamber with some oats, when the master came into the
stable. He looked rather serious, and held an open letter in his hand.
John fastened the door of my box, touched his cap, and waited for
orders.

“Good-morning, John,” said the master. “I want to know if you have any
complaint to make of James.”

“Complaint, sir? No, sir.”

“Is he industrious at his work and respectful to you?”

“Yes, sir, always.”

“You never find he slights his work when your back is turned?”

“Never, sir.”

“That's well; but I must put another question. Have you no reason to
suspect, when he goes out with the horses to exercise them or to take a
message, that he stops about talking to his acquaintances, or goes into
houses where he has no business, leaving the horses outside?”

“No, sir, certainly not; and if anybody has been saying that about
James, I don't believe it, and I don't mean to believe it unless I have
it fairly proved before witnesses; it's not for me to say who has been
trying to take away James' character, but I will say this, sir, that a
steadier, pleasanter, honester, smarter young fellow I never had in this
stable. I can trust his word and I can trust his work; he is gentle and
clever with the horses, and I would rather have them in charge with him
than with half the young fellows I know of in laced hats and liveries;
and whoever wants a character of James Howard,” said John, with a
decided jerk of his head, “let them come to John Manly.”

The master stood all this time grave and attentive, but as John finished
his speech a broad smile spread over his face, and looking kindly
across at James, who all this time had stood still at the door, he said,
“James, my lad, set down the oats and come here; I am very glad to find
that John's opinion of your character agrees so exactly with my own.
John is a cautious man,” he said, with a droll smile, “and it is not
always easy to get his opinion about people, so I thought if I beat the
bush on this side the birds would fly out, and I should learn what I
wanted to know quickly; so now we will come to business. I have a letter
from my brother-in-law, Sir Clifford Williams, of Clifford Hall.
He wants me to find him a trustworthy young groom, about twenty or
twenty-one, who knows his business. His old coachman, who has lived with
him thirty years, is getting feeble, and he wants a man to work with him
and get into his ways, who would be able, when the old man was pensioned
off, to step into his place. He would have eighteen shillings a week at
first, a stable suit, a driving suit, a bedroom over the coachhouse, and
a boy under him. Sir Clifford is a good master, and if you could get the
place it would be a good start for you. I don't want to part with you,
and if you left us I know John would lose his right hand.”

“That I should, sir,” said John, “but I would not stand in his light for
the world.”

“How old are you, James?” said master.

“Nineteen next May, sir.”

“That's young; what do you think, John?”

“Well, sir, it is young; but he is as steady as a man, and is strong,
and well grown, and though he has not had much experience in driving, he
has a light firm hand and a quick eye, and he is very careful, and I am
quite sure no horse of his will be ruined for want of having his feet
and shoes looked after.”

“Your word will go the furthest, John,” said the master, “for Sir
Clifford adds in a postscript, 'If I could find a man trained by your
John I should like him better than any other;' so, James, lad, think it
over, talk to your mother at dinner-time, and then let me know what you
wish.”

In a few days after this conversation it was fully settled that James
should go to Clifford Hall, in a month or six weeks, as it suited his
master, and in the meantime he was to get all the practice in driving
that could be given to him. I never knew the carriage to go out so often
before; when the mistress did not go out the master drove himself in the
two-wheeled chaise; but now, whether it was master or the young ladies,
or only an errand, Ginger and I were put in the carriage and James drove
us. At the first John rode with him on the box, telling him this and
that, and after that James drove alone.

Then it was wonderful what a number of places the master would go to in
the city on Saturday, and what queer streets we were driven through. He
was sure to go to the railway station just as the train was coming in,
and cabs and carriages, carts and omnibuses were all trying to get over
the bridge together; that bridge wanted good horses and good drivers
when the railway bell was ringing, for it was narrow, and there was a
very sharp turn up to the station, where it would not have been at all
difficult for people to run into each other, if they did not look sharp
and keep their wits about them.




15 The Old Hostler


After this it was decided by my master and mistress to pay a visit to
some friends who lived about forty-six miles from our home, and James
was to drive them. The first day we traveled thirty-two miles.
There were some long, heavy hills, but James drove so carefully and
thoughtfully that we were not at all harassed. He never forgot to put on
the brake as we went downhill, nor to take it off at the right place. He
kept our feet on the smoothest part of the road, and if the uphill was
very long, he set the carriage wheels a little across the road, so as
not to run back, and gave us a breathing. All these little things help a
horse very much, particularly if he gets kind words into the bargain.

We stopped once or twice on the road, and just as the sun was going down
we reached the town where we were to spend the night. We stopped at the
principal hotel, which was in the market-place; it was a very large one;
we drove under an archway into a long yard, at the further end of which
were the stables and coachhouses. Two hostlers came to take us out. The
head hostler was a pleasant, active little man, with a crooked leg,
and a yellow striped waistcoat. I never saw a man unbuckle harness so
quickly as he did, and with a pat and a good word he led me to a long
stable, with six or eight stalls in it, and two or three horses. The
other man brought Ginger; James stood by while we were rubbed down and
cleaned.

I never was cleaned so lightly and quickly as by that little old man.
When he had done James stepped up and felt me over, as if he thought I
could not be thoroughly done, but he found my coat as clean and smooth
as silk.

“Well,” he said, “I thought I was pretty quick, and our John quicker
still, but you do beat all I ever saw for being quick and thorough at
the same time.”

“Practice makes perfect,” said the crooked little hostler, “and 'twould
be a pity if it didn't; forty years' practice, and not perfect! ha, ha!
that would be a pity; and as to being quick, why, bless you! that is
only a matter of habit; if you get into the habit of being quick it is
just as easy as being slow; easier, I should say; in fact it don't agree
with my health to be hulking about over a job twice as long as it need
take. Bless you! I couldn't whistle if I crawled over my work as some
folks do! You see, I have been about horses ever since I was twelve
years old, in hunting stables, and racing stables; and being small, ye
see, I was jockey for several years; but at the Goodwood, ye see, the
turf was very slippery and my poor Larkspur got a fall, and I broke my
knee, and so of course I was of no more use there. But I could not live
without horses, of course I couldn't, so I took to the hotels. And I
can tell ye it is a downright pleasure to handle an animal like this,
well-bred, well-mannered, well-cared-for; bless ye! I can tell how a
horse is treated. Give me the handling of a horse for twenty minutes,
and I'll tell you what sort of a groom he has had. Look at this one,
pleasant, quiet, turns about just as you want him, holds up his feet to
be cleaned out, or anything else you please to wish; then you'll find
another fidgety, fretty, won't move the right way, or starts across the
stall, tosses up his head as soon as you come near him, lays his ears,
and seems afraid of you; or else squares about at you with his heels.
Poor things! I know what sort of treatment they have had. If they are
timid it makes them start or shy; if they are high-mettled it makes them
vicious or dangerous; their tempers are mostly made when they are young.
Bless you! they are like children, train 'em up in the way they should
go, as the good book says, and when they are old they will not depart
from it, if they have a chance.”

“I like to hear you talk,” said James, “that's the way we lay it down at
home, at our master's.”

“Who is your master, young man? if it be a proper question. I should
judge he is a good one, from what I see.”

“He is Squire Gordon, of Birtwick Park, the other side the Beacon
Hills,” said James.

“Ah! so, so, I have heard tell of him; fine judge of horses, ain't he?
the best rider in the county.”

“I believe he is,” said James, “but he rides very little now, since the
poor young master was killed.”

“Ah! poor gentleman; I read all about it in the paper at the time. A
fine horse killed, too, wasn't there?”

“Yes,” said James; “he was a splendid creature, brother to this one, and
just like him.”

“Pity! pity!” said the old man; “'twas a bad place to leap, if I
remember; a thin fence at top, a steep bank down to the stream, wasn't
it? No chance for a horse to see where he is going. Now, I am for bold
riding as much as any man, but still there are some leaps that only
a very knowing old huntsman has any right to take. A man's life and a
horse's life are worth more than a fox's tail; at least, I should say
they ought to be.”

During this time the other man had finished Ginger and had brought our
corn, and James and the old man left the stable together.




16 The Fire


Later on in the evening a traveler's horse was brought in by the second
hostler, and while he was cleaning him a young man with a pipe in his
mouth lounged into the stable to gossip.

“I say, Towler,” said the hostler, “just run up the ladder into the loft
and put some hay down into this horse's rack, will you? only lay down
your pipe.”

“All right,” said the other, and went up through the trapdoor; and I
heard him step across the floor overhead and put down the hay. James
came in to look at us the last thing, and then the door was locked.

I cannot say how long I had slept, nor what time in the night it was,
but I woke up very uncomfortable, though I hardly knew why. I got up;
the air seemed all thick and choking. I heard Ginger coughing and one
of the other horses seemed very restless; it was quite dark, and I could
see nothing, but the stable seemed full of smoke, and I hardly knew how
to breathe.

The trapdoor had been left open, and I thought that was the place it
came through. I listened, and heard a soft rushing sort of noise and a
low crackling and snapping. I did not know what it was, but there was
something in the sound so strange that it made me tremble all over. The
other horses were all awake; some were pulling at their halters, others
stamping.

At last I heard steps outside, and the hostler who had put up the
traveler's horse burst into the stable with a lantern, and began to
untie the horses, and try to lead them out; but he seemed in such a
hurry and so frightened himself that he frightened me still more. The
first horse would not go with him; he tried the second and third, and
they too would not stir. He came to me next and tried to drag me out of
the stall by force; of course that was no use. He tried us all by turns
and then left the stable.

No doubt we were very foolish, but danger seemed to be all round, and
there was nobody we knew to trust in, and all was strange and uncertain.
The fresh air that had come in through the open door made it easier to
breathe, but the rushing sound overhead grew louder, and as I looked
upward through the bars of my empty rack I saw a red light flickering
on the wall. Then I heard a cry of “Fire!” outside, and the old hostler
quietly and quickly came in; he got one horse out, and went to another,
but the flames were playing round the trapdoor, and the roaring overhead
was dreadful.

The next thing I heard was James' voice, quiet and cheery, as it always
was.

“Come, my beauties, it is time for us to be off, so wake up and come
along.” I stood nearest the door, so he came to me first, patting me as
he came in.

“Come, Beauty, on with your bridle, my boy, we'll soon be out of this
smother.” It was on in no time; then he took the scarf off his neck, and
tied it lightly over my eyes, and patting and coaxing he led me out
of the stable. Safe in the yard, he slipped the scarf off my eyes, and
shouted, “Here somebody! take this horse while I go back for the other.”

A tall, broad man stepped forward and took me, and James darted back
into the stable. I set up a shrill whinny as I saw him go. Ginger told
me afterward that whinny was the best thing I could have done for her,
for had she not heard me outside she would never have had courage to
come out.

There was much confusion in the yard; the horses being got out of other
stables, and the carriages and gigs being pulled out of houses and
sheds, lest the flames should spread further. On the other side the yard
windows were thrown up, and people were shouting all sorts of things;
but I kept my eye fixed on the stable door, where the smoke poured out
thicker than ever, and I could see flashes of red light; presently I
heard above all the stir and din a loud, clear voice, which I knew was
master's:

“James Howard! James Howard! Are you there?” There was no answer, but I
heard a crash of something falling in the stable, and the next moment
I gave a loud, joyful neigh, for I saw James coming through the smoke
leading Ginger with him; she was coughing violently, and he was not able
to speak.

“My brave lad!” said master, laying his hand on his shoulder, “are you
hurt?”

James shook his head, for he could not yet speak.

“Ay,” said the big man who held me; “he is a brave lad, and no mistake.”

“And now,” said master, “when you have got your breath, James, we'll get
out of this place as quickly as we can,” and we were moving toward the
entry, when from the market-place there came a sound of galloping feet
and loud rumbling wheels.

“'Tis the fire-engine! the fire-engine!” shouted two or three voices,
“stand back, make way!” and clattering and thundering over the stones
two horses dashed into the yard with a heavy engine behind them. The
firemen leaped to the ground; there was no need to ask where the fire
was--it was rolling up in a great blaze from the roof.

We got out as fast as we could into the broad quiet market-place; the
stars were shining, and except the noise behind us, all was still.
Master led the way to a large hotel on the other side, and as soon as
the hostler came, he said, “James, I must now hasten to your mistress;
I trust the horses entirely to you, order whatever you think is needed,”
 and with that he was gone. The master did not run, but I never saw
mortal man walk so fast as he did that night.

There was a dreadful sound before we got into our stalls--the shrieks of
those poor horses that were left burning to death in the stable--it was
very terrible! and made both Ginger and me feel very bad. We, however,
were taken in and well done by.

The next morning the master came to see how we were and to speak to
James. I did not hear much, for the hostler was rubbing me down, but
I could see that James looked very happy, and I thought the master was
proud of him. Our mistress had been so much alarmed in the night that
the journey was put off till the afternoon, so James had the morning
on hand, and went first to the inn to see about our harness and the
carriage, and then to hear more about the fire. When he came back we
heard him tell the hostler about it. At first no one could guess how the
fire had been caused, but at last a man said he saw Dick Towler go into
the stable with a pipe in his mouth, and when he came out he had not
one, and went to the tap for another. Then the under hostler said he had
asked Dick to go up the ladder to put down some hay, but told him to lay
down his pipe first. Dick denied taking the pipe with him, but no one
believed him. I remember our John Manly's rule, never to allow a pipe in
the stable, and thought it ought to be the rule everywhere.

James said the roof and floor had all fallen in, and that only the black
walls were standing; the two poor horses that could not be got out were
buried under the burnt rafters and tiles.




17 John Manly's Talk


The rest of our journey was very easy, and a little after sunset we
reached the house of my master's friend. We were taken into a clean,
snug stable; there was a kind coachman, who made us very comfortable,
and who seemed to think a good deal of James when he heard about the
fire.

“There is one thing quite clear, young man,” he said, “your horses know
who they can trust; it is one of the hardest things in the world to get
horses out of a stable when there is either fire or flood. I don't know
why they won't come out, but they won't--not one in twenty.”

We stopped two or three days at this place and then returned home. All
went well on the journey; we were glad to be in our own stable again,
and John was equally glad to see us.

Before he and James left us for the night James said, “I wonder who is
coming in my place.”

“Little Joe Green at the lodge,” said John.

“Little Joe Green! why, he's a child!”

“He is fourteen and a half,” said John.

“But he is such a little chap!”

“Yes, he is small, but he is quick and willing, and kind-hearted, too,
and then he wishes very much to come, and his father would like it;
and I know the master would like to give him the chance. He said if I
thought he would not do he would look out for a bigger boy; but I said I
was quite agreeable to try him for six weeks.”

“Six weeks!” said James; “why, it will be six months before he can be of
much use! It will make you a deal of work, John.”

“Well,” said John with a laugh, “work and I are very good friends; I
never was afraid of work yet.”

“You are a very good man,” said James. “I wish I may ever be like you.”

“I don't often speak of myself,” said John, “but as you are going away
from us out into the world to shift for yourself I'll just tell you how
I look on these things. I was just as old as Joseph when my father and
mother died of the fever within ten days of each other, and left me and
my cripple sister Nelly alone in the world, without a relation that we
could look to for help. I was a farmer's boy, not earning enough to keep
myself, much less both of us, and she must have gone to the workhouse
but for our mistress (Nelly calls her her angel, and she has good right
to do so). She went and hired a room for her with old Widow Mallet, and
she gave her knitting and needlework when she was able to do it; and
when she was ill she sent her dinners and many nice, comfortable things,
and was like a mother to her. Then the master he took me into the stable
under old Norman, the coachman that was then. I had my food at the house
and my bed in the loft, and a suit of clothes, and three shillings a
week, so that I could help Nelly. Then there was Norman; he might have
turned round and said at his age he could not be troubled with a raw boy
from the plow-tail, but he was like a father to me, and took no end of
pains with me. When the old man died some years after I stepped into his
place, and now of course I have top wages, and can lay by for a rainy
day or a sunny day, as it may happen, and Nelly is as happy as a bird.
So you see, James, I am not the man that should turn up his nose at a
little boy and vex a good, kind master. No, no! I shall miss you very
much, James, but we shall pull through, and there's nothing like doing a
kindness when 'tis put in your way, and I am glad I can do it.”

“Then,” said James, “you don't hold with that saying, 'Everybody look
after himself, and take care of number one'?”

“No, indeed,” said John, “where should I and Nelly have been if master
and mistress and old Norman had only taken care of number one? Why,
she in the workhouse and I hoeing turnips! Where would Black Beauty and
Ginger have been if you had only thought of number one? why, roasted to
death! No, Jim, no! that is a selfish, heathenish saying, whoever uses
it; and any man who thinks he has nothing to do but take care of number
one, why, it's a pity but what he had been drowned like a puppy or a
kitten, before he got his eyes open; that's what I think,” said John,
with a very decided jerk of his head.

James laughed at this; but there was a thickness in his voice when he
said, “You have been my best friend except my mother; I hope you won't
forget me.”

“No, lad, no!” said John, “and if ever I can do you a good turn I hope
you won't forget me.”

The next day Joe came to the stables to learn all he could before James
left. He learned to sweep the stable, to bring in the straw and hay; he
began to clean the harness, and helped to wash the carriage. As he was
quite too short to do anything in the way of grooming Ginger and me,
James taught him upon Merrylegs, for he was to have full charge of
him, under John. He was a nice little bright fellow, and always came
whistling to his work.

Merrylegs was a good deal put out at being “mauled about,” as he said,
“by a boy who knew nothing;” but toward the end of the second week he
told me confidentially that he thought the boy would turn out well.

At last the day came when James had to leave us; cheerful as he always
was, he looked quite down-hearted that morning.

“You see,” he said to John, “I am leaving a great deal behind; my mother
and Betsy, and you, and a good master and mistress, and then the horses,
and my old Merrylegs. At the new place there will not be a soul that I
shall know. If it were not that I shall get a higher place, and be able
to help my mother better, I don't think I should have made up my mind to
it; it is a real pinch, John.”

“Ay, James, lad, so it is; but I should not think much of you if you
could leave your home for the first time and not feel it. Cheer up,
you'll make friends there; and if you get on well, as I am sure you
will, it will be a fine thing for your mother, and she will be proud
enough that you have got into such a good place as that.”

So John cheered him up, but every one was sorry to lose James; as for
Merrylegs, he pined after him for several days, and went quite off his
appetite. So John took him out several mornings with a leading rein,
when he exercised me, and, trotting and galloping by my side, got up the
little fellow's spirits again, and he was soon all right.

Joe's father would often come in and give a little help, as he
understood the work; and Joe took a great deal of pains to learn, and
John was quite encouraged about him.




18 Going for the Doctor


One night, a few days after James had left, I had eaten my hay and was
lying down in my straw fast asleep, when I was suddenly roused by the
stable bell ringing very loud. I heard the door of John's house open,
and his feet running up to the hall. He was back again in no time; he
unlocked the stable door, and came in, calling out, “Wake up, Beauty!
You must go well now, if ever you did;” and almost before I could think
he had got the saddle on my back and the bridle on my head. He just
ran round for his coat, and then took me at a quick trot up to the hall
door. The squire stood there, with a lamp in his hand.

“Now, John,” he said, “ride for your life--that is, for your mistress'
life; there is not a moment to lose. Give this note to Dr. White; give
your horse a rest at the inn, and be back as soon as you can.”

John said, “Yes, sir,” and was on my back in a minute. The gardener who
lived at the lodge had heard the bell ring, and was ready with the gate
open, and away we went through the park, and through the village, and
down the hill till we came to the toll-gate. John called very loud and
thumped upon the door; the man was soon out and flung open the gate.

“Now,” said John, “do you keep the gate open for the doctor; here's the
money,” and off he went again.

There was before us a long piece of level road by the river side; John
said to me, “Now, Beauty, do your best,” and so I did; I wanted no whip
nor spur, and for two miles I galloped as fast as I could lay my feet to
the ground; I don't believe that my old grandfather, who won the race
at Newmarket, could have gone faster. When we came to the bridge John
pulled me up a little and patted my neck. “Well done, Beauty! good old
fellow,” he said. He would have let me go slower, but my spirit was up,
and I was off again as fast as before. The air was frosty, the moon was
bright; it was very pleasant. We came through a village, then through
a dark wood, then uphill, then downhill, till after eight miles' run we
came to the town, through the streets and into the market-place. It was
all quite still except the clatter of my feet on the stones--everybody
was asleep. The church clock struck three as we drew up at Dr. White's
door. John rang the bell twice, and then knocked at the door like
thunder. A window was thrown up, and Dr. White, in his nightcap, put his
head out and said, “What do you want?”

“Mrs. Gordon is very ill, sir; master wants you to go at once; he thinks
she will die if you cannot get there. Here is a note.”

“Wait,” he said, “I will come.”

He shut the window, and was soon at the door.

“The worst of it is,” he said, “that my horse has been out all day and
is quite done up; my son has just been sent for, and he has taken the
other. What is to be done? Can I have your horse?”

“He has come at a gallop nearly all the way, sir, and I was to give him
a rest here; but I think my master would not be against it, if you think
fit, sir.”

“All right,” he said; “I will soon be ready.”

John stood by me and stroked my neck; I was very hot. The doctor came
out with his riding-whip.

“You need not take that, sir,” said John; “Black Beauty will go till he
drops. Take care of him, sir, if you can; I should not like any harm to
come to him.”

“No, no, John,” said the doctor, “I hope not,” and in a minute we had
left John far behind.

I will not tell about our way back. The doctor was a heavier man than
John, and not so good a rider; however, I did my very best. The man at
the toll-gate had it open. When we came to the hill the doctor drew me
up. “Now, my good fellow,” he said, “take some breath.” I was glad he
did, for I was nearly spent, but that breathing helped me on, and soon
we were in the park. Joe was at the lodge gate; my master was at the
hall door, for he had heard us coming. He spoke not a word; the doctor
went into the house with him, and Joe led me to the stable. I was glad
to get home; my legs shook under me, and I could only stand and pant. I
had not a dry hair on my body, the water ran down my legs, and I steamed
all over, Joe used to say, like a pot on the fire. Poor Joe! he was
young and small, and as yet he knew very little, and his father, who
would have helped him, had been sent to the next village; but I am sure
he did the very best he knew. He rubbed my legs and my chest, but he did
not put my warm cloth on me; he thought I was so hot I should not like
it. Then he gave me a pailful of water to drink; it was cold and very
good, and I drank it all; then he gave me some hay and some corn, and
thinking he had done right, he went away. Soon I began to shake and
tremble, and turned deadly cold; my legs ached, my loins ached, and my
chest ached, and I felt sore all over. Oh! how I wished for my warm,
thick cloth, as I stood and trembled. I wished for John, but he had
eight miles to walk, so I lay down in my straw and tried to go to sleep.
After a long while I heard John at the door; I gave a low moan, for I
was in great pain. He was at my side in a moment, stooping down by me. I
could not tell him how I felt, but he seemed to know it all; he covered
me up with two or three warm cloths, and then ran to the house for some
hot water; he made me some warm gruel, which I drank, and then I think I
went to sleep.

John seemed to be very much put out. I heard him say to himself over and
over again, “Stupid boy! stupid boy! no cloth put on, and I dare say the
water was cold, too; boys are no good;” but Joe was a good boy, after
all.

I was now very ill; a strong inflammation had attacked my lungs, and I
could not draw my breath without pain. John nursed me night and day; he
would get up two or three times in the night to come to me. My master,
too, often came to see me. “My poor Beauty,” he said one day, “my good
horse, you saved your mistress' life, Beauty; yes, you saved her life.”
 I was very glad to hear that, for it seems the doctor had said if we had
been a little longer it would have been too late. John told my master he
never saw a horse go so fast in his life. It seemed as if the horse knew
what was the matter. Of course I did, though John thought not; at least
I knew as much as this--that John and I must go at the top of our speed,
and that it was for the sake of the mistress.




19 Only Ignorance


I do not know how long I was ill. Mr. Bond, the horse-doctor, came every
day. One day he bled me; John held a pail for the blood. I felt very
faint after it and thought I should die, and I believe they all thought
so too.

Ginger and Merrylegs had been moved into the other stable, so that I
might be quiet, for the fever made me very quick of hearing; any little
noise seemed quite loud, and I could tell every one's footstep going to
and from the house. I knew all that was going on. One night John had to
give me a draught; Thomas Green came in to help him. After I had taken
it and John had made me as comfortable as he could, he said he should
stay half an hour to see how the medicine settled. Thomas said he
would stay with him, so they went and sat down on a bench that had been
brought into Merrylegs' stall, and put down the lantern at their feet,
that I might not be disturbed with the light.

For awhile both men sat silent, and then Tom Green said in a low voice:

“I wish, John, you'd say a bit of a kind word to Joe. The boy is quite
broken-hearted; he can't eat his meals, and he can't smile. He says he
knows it was all his fault, though he is sure he did the best he knew,
and he says if Beauty dies no one will ever speak to him again. It goes
to my heart to hear him. I think you might give him just a word; he is
not a bad boy.”

After a short pause John said slowly, “You must not be too hard upon me,
Tom. I know he meant no harm, I never said he did; I know he is not a
bad boy. But you see, I am sore myself; that horse is the pride of my
heart, to say nothing of his being such a favorite with the master and
mistress; and to think that his life may be flung away in this manner is
more than I can bear. But if you think I am hard on the boy I will try
to give him a good word to-morrow--that is, I mean if Beauty is better.”

“Well, John, thank you. I knew you did not wish to be too hard, and I am
glad you see it was only ignorance.”

John's voice almost startled me as he answered:

“Only ignorance! only ignorance! how can you talk about only ignorance?
Don't you know that it is the worst thing in the world, next to
wickedness?--and which does the most mischief heaven only knows. If
people can say, 'Oh! I did not know, I did not mean any harm,' they
think it is all right. I suppose Martha Mulwash did not mean to kill
that baby when she dosed it with Dalby and soothing syrups; but she did
kill it, and was tried for manslaughter.”

“And serve her right, too,” said Tom. “A woman should not undertake to
nurse a tender little child without knowing what is good and what is bad
for it.”

“Bill Starkey,” continued John, “did not mean to frighten his brother
into fits when he dressed up like a ghost and ran after him in the
moonlight; but he did; and that bright, handsome little fellow, that
might have been the pride of any mother's heart is just no better than
an idiot, and never will be, if he lives to be eighty years old. You
were a good deal cut up yourself, Tom, two weeks ago, when those young
ladies left your hothouse door open, with a frosty east wind blowing
right in; you said it killed a good many of your plants.”

“A good many!” said Tom; “there was not one of the tender cuttings that
was not nipped off. I shall have to strike all over again, and the worst
of it is that I don't know where to go to get fresh ones. I was nearly
mad when I came in and saw what was done.”

“And yet,” said John, “I am sure the young ladies did not mean it; it
was only ignorance.”

I heard no more of this conversation, for the medicine did well and sent
me to sleep, and in the morning I felt much better; but I often thought
of John's words when I came to know more of the world.




20 Joe Green


Joe Green went on very well; he learned quickly, and was so attentive
and careful that John began to trust him in many things; but as I have
said, he was small of his age, and it was seldom that he was allowed to
exercise either Ginger or me; but it so happened one morning that John
was out with Justice in the luggage cart, and the master wanted a
note to be taken immediately to a gentleman's house, about three miles
distant, and sent his orders for Joe to saddle me and take it, adding
the caution that he was to ride steadily.

The note was delivered, and we were quietly returning when we came
to the brick-field. Here we saw a cart heavily laden with bricks; the
wheels had stuck fast in the stiff mud of some deep ruts, and the carter
was shouting and flogging the two horses unmercifully. Joe pulled up. It
was a sad sight. There were the two horses straining and struggling with
all their might to drag the cart out, but they could not move it; the
sweat streamed from their legs and flanks, their sides heaved, and every
muscle was strained, while the man, fiercely pulling at the head of the
fore horse, swore and lashed most brutally.

“Hold hard,” said Joe; “don't go on flogging the horses like that; the
wheels are so stuck that they cannot move the cart.”

The man took no heed, but went on lashing.

“Stop! pray stop!” said Joe. “I'll help you to lighten the cart; they
can't move it now.”

“Mind your own business, you impudent young rascal, and I'll mind mine!”
 The man was in a towering passion and the worse for drink, and laid on
the whip again. Joe turned my head, and the next moment we were going at
a round gallop toward the house of the master brick-maker. I cannot say
if John would have approved of our pace, but Joe and I were both of one
mind, and so angry that we could not have gone slower.

The house stood close by the roadside. Joe knocked at the door, and
shouted, “Halloo! Is Mr. Clay at home?” The door was opened, and Mr.
Clay himself came out.

“Halloo, young man! You seem in a hurry; any orders from the squire this
morning?”

“No, Mr. Clay, but there's a fellow in your brick-yard flogging two
horses to death. I told him to stop, and he wouldn't; I said I'd help
him to lighten the cart, and he wouldn't; so I have come to tell you.
Pray, sir, go.” Joe's voice shook with excitement.

“Thank ye, my lad,” said the man, running in for his hat; then pausing
for a moment, “Will you give evidence of what you saw if I should bring
the fellow up before a magistrate?”

“That I will,” said Joe, “and glad too.” The man was gone, and we were
on our way home at a smart trot.

“Why, what's the matter with you, Joe? You look angry all over,” said
John, as the boy flung himself from the saddle.

“I am angry all over, I can tell you,” said the boy, and then in
hurried, excited words he told all that had happened. Joe was usually
such a quiet, gentle little fellow that it was wonderful to see him so
roused.

“Right, Joe! you did right, my boy, whether the fellow gets a summons or
not. Many folks would have ridden by and said it was not their
business to interfere. Now I say that with cruelty and oppression it is
everybody's business to interfere when they see it; you did right, my
boy.”

Joe was quite calm by this time, and proud that John approved of him,
and cleaned out my feet and rubbed me down with a firmer hand than
usual.

They were just going home to dinner when the footman came down to the
stable to say that Joe was wanted directly in master's private room;
there was a man brought up for ill-using horses, and Joe's evidence was
wanted. The boy flushed up to his forehead, and his eyes sparkled. “They
shall have it,” said he.

“Put yourself a bit straight,” said John. Joe gave a pull at his necktie
and a twitch at his jacket, and was off in a moment. Our master being
one of the county magistrates, cases were often brought to him to
settle, or say what should be done. In the stable we heard no more for
some time, as it was the men's dinner hour, but when Joe came next into
the stable I saw he was in high spirits; he gave me a good-natured slap,
and said, “We won't see such things done, will we, old fellow?” We heard
afterward that he had given his evidence so clearly, and the horses were
in such an exhausted state, bearing marks of such brutal usage, that the
carter was committed to take his trial, and might possibly be sentenced
to two or three months in prison.

It was wonderful what a change had come over Joe. John laughed, and said
he had grown an inch taller in that week, and I believe he had. He
was just as kind and gentle as before, but there was more purpose and
determination in all that he did--as if he had jumped at once from a boy
into a man.




21 The Parting


Now I had lived in this happy place three years, but sad changes were
about to come over us. We heard from time to time that our mistress was
ill. The doctor was often at the house, and the master looked grave and
anxious. Then we heard that she must leave her home at once, and go to
a warm country for two or three years. The news fell upon the household
like the tolling of a deathbell. Everybody was sorry; but the master
began directly to make arrangements for breaking up his establishment
and leaving England. We used to hear it talked about in our stable;
indeed, nothing else was talked about.

John went about his work silent and sad, and Joe scarcely whistled.
There was a great deal of coming and going; Ginger and I had full work.

The first of the party who went were Miss Jessie and Flora, with their
governess. They came to bid us good-by. They hugged poor Merrylegs
like an old friend, and so indeed he was. Then we heard what had been
arranged for us. Master had sold Ginger and me to his old friend,
the Earl of W----, for he thought we should have a good place there.
Merrylegs he had given to the vicar, who was wanting a pony for Mrs.
Blomefield, but it was on the condition that he should never be sold,
and that when he was past work he should be shot and buried.

Joe was engaged to take care of him and to help in the house, so I
thought that Merrylegs was well off. John had the offer of several good
places, but he said he should wait a little and look round.

The evening before they left the master came into the stable to give
some directions, and to give his horses the last pat. He seemed very
low-spirited; I knew that by his voice. I believe we horses can tell
more by the voice than many men can.

“Have you decided what to do, John?” he said. “I find you have not
accepted either of those offers.”

“No, sir; I have made up my mind that if I could get a situation with
some first-rate colt-breaker and horse-trainer, it would be the right
thing for me. Many young animals are frightened and spoiled by wrong
treatment, which need not be if the right man took them in hand. I
always get on well with horses, and if I could help some of them to a
fair start I should feel as if I was doing some good. What do you think
of it, sir?”

“I don't know a man anywhere,” said master, “that I should think so
suitable for it as yourself. You understand horses, and somehow they
understand you, and in time you might set up for yourself; I think you
could not do better. If in any way I can help you, write to me. I shall
speak to my agent in London, and leave your character with him.”

Master gave John the name and address, and then he thanked him for his
long and faithful service; but that was too much for John. “Pray, don't,
sir, I can't bear it; you and my dear mistress have done so much for
me that I could never repay it. But we shall never forget you, sir, and
please God, we may some day see mistress back again like herself; we
must keep up hope, sir.” Master gave John his hand, but he did not
speak, and they both left the stable.

The last sad day had come; the footman and the heavy luggage had gone
off the day before, and there were only master and mistress and her
maid. Ginger and I brought the carriage up to the hall door for the last
time. The servants brought out cushions and rugs and many other things;
and when all were arranged master came down the steps carrying the
mistress in his arms (I was on the side next to the house, and could see
all that went on); he placed her carefully in the carriage, while the
house servants stood round crying.

“Good-by, again,” he said; “we shall not forget any of you,” and he got
in. “Drive on, John.”

Joe jumped up, and we trotted slowly through the park and through the
village, where the people were standing at their doors to have a last
look and to say, “God bless them.”

When we reached the railway station I think mistress walked from the
carriage to the waiting-room. I heard her say in her own sweet voice,
“Good-by, John. God bless you.” I felt the rein twitch, but John made no
answer; perhaps he could not speak. As soon as Joe had taken the things
out of the carriage John called him to stand by the horses, while he
went on the platform. Poor Joe! he stood close up to our heads to hide
his tears. Very soon the train came puffing up into the station; then
two or three minutes, and the doors were slammed to, the guard whistled,
and the train glided away, leaving behind it only clouds of white smoke
and some very heavy hearts.

When it was quite out of sight John came back.

“We shall never see her again,” he said--“never.” He took the reins,
mounted the box, and with Joe drove slowly home; but it was not our home
now.




Part II




22 Earlshall


The next morning after breakfast Joe put Merrylegs into the mistress'
low chaise to take him to the vicarage; he came first and said good-by
to us, and Merrylegs neighed to us from the yard. Then John put the
saddle on Ginger and the leading rein on me, and rode us across the
country about fifteen miles to Earlshall Park, where the Earl of W----
lived. There was a very fine house and a great deal of stabling. We went
into the yard through a stone gateway, and John asked for Mr. York. It
was some time before he came. He was a fine-looking, middle-aged man,
and his voice said at once that he expected to be obeyed. He was very
friendly and polite to John, and after giving us a slight look he
called a groom to take us to our boxes, and invited John to take some
refreshment.

We were taken to a light, airy stable, and placed in boxes adjoining
each other, where we were rubbed down and fed. In about half an hour
John and Mr. York, who was to be our new coachman, came in to see us.

“Now, Mr. Manly,” he said, after carefully looking at us both, “I can
see no fault in these horses; but we all know that horses have their
peculiarities as well as men, and that sometimes they need different
treatment. I should like to know if there is anything particular in
either of these that you would like to mention.”

“Well,” said John, “I don't believe there is a better pair of horses in
the country, and right grieved I am to part with them, but they are not
alike. The black one is the most perfect temper I ever knew; I suppose
he has never known a hard word or a blow since he was foaled, and all
his pleasure seems to be to do what you wish; but the chestnut, I fancy,
must have had bad treatment; we heard as much from the dealer. She came
to us snappish and suspicious, but when she found what sort of place
ours was, it all went off by degrees; for three years I have never seen
the smallest sign of temper, and if she is well treated there is not
a better, more willing animal than she is. But she is naturally a more
irritable constitution than the black horse; flies tease her more;
anything wrong in the harness frets her more; and if she were ill-used
or unfairly treated she would not be unlikely to give tit for tat. You
know that many high-mettled horses will do so.”

“Of course,” said York, “I quite understand; but you know it is not easy
in stables like these to have all the grooms just what they should be. I
do my best, and there I must leave it. I'll remember what you have said
about the mare.”

They were going out of the stable, when John stopped and said, “I had
better mention that we have never used the check-rein with either of
them; the black horse never had one on, and the dealer said it was the
gag-bit that spoiled the other's temper.”

“Well,” said York, “if they come here they must wear the check-rein. I
prefer a loose rein myself, and his lordship is always very reasonable
about horses; but my lady--that's another thing; she will have style,
and if her carriage horses are not reined up tight she wouldn't look at
them. I always stand out against the gag-bit, and shall do so, but it
must be tight up when my lady rides!”

“I am sorry for it, very sorry,” said John; “but I must go now, or I
shall lose the train.”

He came round to each of us to pat and speak to us for the last time;
his voice sounded very sad.

I held my face close to him; that was all I could do to say good-by; and
then he was gone, and I have never seen him since.

The next day Lord W---- came to look at us; he seemed pleased with our
appearance.

“I have great confidence in these horses,” he said, “from the character
my friend Mr. Gordon has given me of them. Of course they are not a
match in color, but my idea is that they will do very well for the
carriage while we are in the country. Before we go to London I must try
to match Baron; the black horse, I believe, is perfect for riding.”

York then told him what John had said about us.

“Well,” said he, “you must keep an eye to the mare, and put the
check-rein easy; I dare say they will do very well with a little
humoring at first. I'll mention it to your lady.”

In the afternoon we were harnessed and put in the carriage, and as the
stable clock struck three we were led round to the front of the house.
It was all very grand, and three or four times as large as the old house
at Birtwick, but not half so pleasant, if a horse may have an opinion.
Two footmen were standing ready, dressed in drab livery, with scarlet
breeches and white stockings. Presently we heard the rustling sound of
silk as my lady came down the flight of stone steps. She stepped round
to look at us; she was a tall, proud-looking woman, and did not
seem pleased about something, but she said nothing, and got into the
carriage. This was the first time of wearing a check-rein, and I must
say, though it certainly was a nuisance not to be able to get my head
down now and then, it did not pull my head higher than I was accustomed
to carry it. I felt anxious about Ginger, but she seemed to be quiet and
content.

The next day at three o'clock we were again at the door, and the footmen
as before; we heard the silk dress rustle and the lady came down the
steps, and in an imperious voice she said, “York, you must put those
horses' heads higher; they are not fit to be seen.”

York got down, and said very respectfully, “I beg your pardon, my lady,
but these horses have not been reined up for three years, and my lord
said it would be safer to bring them to it by degrees; but if your
ladyship pleases I can take them up a little more.”

“Do so,” she said.

York came round to our heads and shortened the rein himself--one hole,
I think; every little makes a difference, be it for better or worse, and
that day we had a steep hill to go up. Then I began to understand what
I had heard of. Of course, I wanted to put my head forward and take the
carriage up with a will, as we had been used to do; but no, I had to
pull with my head up now, and that took all the spirit out of me, and
the strain came on my back and legs. When we came in Ginger said, “Now
you see what it is like; but this is not bad, and if it does not get
much worse than this I shall say nothing about it, for we are very well
treated here; but if they strain me up tight, why, let 'em look out! I
can't bear it, and I won't.”

Day by day, hole by hole, our bearing reins were shortened, and instead
of looking forward with pleasure to having my harness put on, as I used
to do, I began to dread it. Ginger, too, seemed restless, though she
said very little. At last I thought the worst was over; for several days
there was no more shortening, and I determined to make the best of
it and do my duty, though it was now a constant harass instead of a
pleasure; but the worst was not come.




23 A Strike for Liberty


One day my lady came down later than usual, and the silk rustled more
than ever.

“Drive to the Duchess of B----'s,” she said, and then after a pause,
“Are you never going to get those horses' heads up, York? Raise them at
once and let us have no more of this humoring and nonsense.”

York came to me first, while the groom stood at Ginger's head. He drew
my head back and fixed the rein so tight that it was almost intolerable;
then he went to Ginger, who was impatiently jerking her head up and down
against the bit, as was her way now. She had a good idea of what was
coming, and the moment York took the rein off the terret in order to
shorten it she took her opportunity and reared up so suddenly that York
had his nose roughly hit and his hat knocked off; the groom was nearly
thrown off his legs. At once they both flew to her head; but she was
a match for them, and went on plunging, rearing, and kicking in a most
desperate manner. At last she kicked right over the carriage pole and
fell down, after giving me a severe blow on my near quarter. There is no
knowing what further mischief she might have done had not York promptly
sat himself down flat on her head to prevent her struggling, at the
same time calling out, “Unbuckle the black horse! Run for the winch and
unscrew the carriage pole! Cut the trace here, somebody, if you can't
unhitch it!” One of the footmen ran for the winch, and another brought
a knife from the house. The groom soon set me free from Ginger and the
carriage, and led me to my box. He just turned me in as I was and ran
back to York. I was much excited by what had happened, and if I had ever
been used to kick or rear I am sure I should have done it then; but
I never had, and there I stood, angry, sore in my leg, my head still
strained up to the terret on the saddle, and no power to get it down. I
was very miserable and felt much inclined to kick the first person who
came near me.

Before long, however, Ginger was led in by two grooms, a good deal
knocked about and bruised. York came with her and gave his orders, and
then came to look at me. In a moment he let down my head.

“Confound these check-reins!” he said to himself; “I thought we should
have some mischief soon. Master will be sorely vexed. But there, if a
woman's husband can't rule her of course a servant can't; so I wash my
hands of it, and if she can't get to the duchess' garden party I can't
help it.”

York did not say this before the men; he always spoke respectfully when
they were by. Now he felt me all over, and soon found the place above my
hock where I had been kicked. It was swelled and painful; he ordered it
to be sponged with hot water, and then some lotion was put on.

Lord W---- was much put out when he learned what had happened; he blamed
York for giving way to his mistress, to which he replied that in future
he would much prefer to receive his orders only from his lordship; but
I think nothing came of it, for things went on the same as before. I
thought York might have stood up better for his horses, but perhaps I am
no judge.

Ginger was never put into the carriage again, but when she was well of
her bruises one of the Lord W----'s younger sons said he should like
to have her; he was sure she would make a good hunter. As for me, I was
obliged still to go in the carriage, and had a fresh partner called Max;
he had always been used to the tight rein. I asked him how it was he
bore it.

“Well,” he said, “I bear it because I must; but it is shortening my
life, and it will shorten yours too if you have to stick to it.”

“Do you think,” I said, “that our masters know how bad it is for us?”

“I can't say,” he replied, “but the dealers and the horse-doctors know
it very well. I was at a dealer's once, who was training me and another
horse to go as a pair; he was getting our heads up, as he said, a little
higher and a little higher every day. A gentleman who was there asked
him why he did so. 'Because,' said he, 'people won't buy them unless we
do. The London people always want their horses to carry their heads high
and to step high. Of course it is very bad for the horses, but then it
is good for trade. The horses soon wear up, or get diseased, and they
come for another pair.' That,” said Max, “is what he said in my hearing,
and you can judge for yourself.”

What I suffered with that rein for four long months in my lady's
carriage it would be hard to describe; but I am quite sure that, had it
lasted much longer, either my health or my temper would have given way.
Before that, I never knew what it was to foam at the mouth, but now
the action of the sharp bit on my tongue and jaw, and the constrained
position of my head and throat, always caused me to froth at the mouth
more or less. Some people think it very fine to see this, and say, “What
fine spirited creatures!” But it is just as unnatural for horses as
for men to foam at the mouth; it is a sure sign of some discomfort,
and should be attended to. Besides this, there was a pressure on my
windpipe, which often made my breathing very uncomfortable; when I
returned from my work my neck and chest were strained and painful, my
mouth and tongue tender, and I felt worn and depressed.

In my old home I always knew that John and my master were my friends;
but here, although in many ways I was well treated, I had no friend.
York might have known, and very likely did know, how that rein harassed
me; but I suppose he took it as a matter of course that it could not be
helped; at any rate, nothing was done to relieve me.




24 The Lady Anne, or a Runaway Horse


Early in the spring, Lord W---- and part of his family went up to
London, and took York with them. I and Ginger and some other horses were
left at home for use, and the head groom was left in charge.

The Lady Harriet, who remained at the hall, was a great invalid, and
never went out in the carriage, and the Lady Anne preferred riding on
horseback with her brother or cousins. She was a perfect horsewoman, and
as gay and gentle as she was beautiful. She chose me for her horse, and
named me “Black Auster”. I enjoyed these rides very much in the clear
cold air, sometimes with Ginger, sometimes with Lizzie. This Lizzie was
a bright bay mare, almost thoroughbred, and a great favorite with the
gentlemen, on account of her fine action and lively spirit; but Ginger,
who knew more of her than I did, told me she was rather nervous.

There was a gentleman of the name of Blantyre staying at the hall;
he always rode Lizzie, and praised her so much that one day Lady Anne
ordered the side-saddle to be put on her, and the other saddle on me.
When we came to the door the gentleman seemed very uneasy.

“How is this?” he said. “Are you tired of your good Black Auster?”

“Oh, no, not at all,” she replied, “but I am amiable enough to let you
ride him for once, and I will try your charming Lizzie. You must confess
that in size and appearance she is far more like a lady's horse than my
own favorite.”

“Do let me advise you not to mount her,” he said; “she is a charming
creature, but she is too nervous for a lady. I assure you, she is not
perfectly safe; let me beg you to have the saddles changed.”

“My dear cousin,” said Lady Anne, laughing, “pray do not trouble your
good careful head about me. I have been a horsewoman ever since I was a
baby, and I have followed the hounds a great many times, though I know
you do not approve of ladies hunting; but still that is the fact, and
I intend to try this Lizzie that you gentlemen are all so fond of; so
please help me to mount, like a good friend as you are.”

There was no more to be said; he placed her carefully on the saddle,
looked to the bit and curb, gave the reins gently into her hand, and
then mounted me. Just as we were moving off a footman came out with a
slip of paper and message from the Lady Harriet. “Would they ask this
question for her at Dr. Ashley's, and bring the answer?”

The village was about a mile off, and the doctor's house was the last
in it. We went along gayly enough till we came to his gate. There was a
short drive up to the house between tall evergreens.

Blantyre alighted at the gate, and was going to open it for Lady Anne,
but she said, “I will wait for you here, and you can hang Auster's rein
on the gate.”

He looked at her doubtfully. “I will not be five minutes,” he said.

“Oh, do not hurry yourself; Lizzie and I shall not run away from you.”

He hung my rein on one of the iron spikes, and was soon hidden among the
trees. Lizzie was standing quietly by the side of the road a few paces
off, with her back to me. My young mistress was sitting easily with a
loose rein, humming a little song. I listened to my rider's footsteps
until they reached the house, and heard him knock at the door. There was
a meadow on the opposite side of the road, the gate of which stood open;
just then some cart horses and several young colts came trotting out in
a very disorderly manner, while a boy behind was cracking a great whip.
The colts were wild and frolicsome, and one of them bolted across the
road and blundered up against Lizzie's hind legs, and whether it was
the stupid colt, or the loud cracking of the whip, or both together, I
cannot say, but she gave a violent kick, and dashed off into a headlong
gallop. It was so sudden that Lady Anne was nearly unseated, but she
soon recovered herself. I gave a loud, shrill neigh for help; again and
again I neighed, pawing the ground impatiently, and tossing my head to
get the rein loose. I had not long to wait. Blantyre came running to
the gate; he looked anxiously about, and just caught sight of the flying
figure, now far away on the road. In an instant he sprang to the saddle.
I needed no whip, no spur, for I was as eager as my rider; he saw it,
and giving me a free rein, and leaning a little forward, we dashed after
them.

For about a mile and a half the road ran straight, and then bent to the
right, after which it divided into two roads. Long before we came to
the bend she was out of sight. Which way had she turned? A woman was
standing at her garden gate, shading her eyes with her hand, and looking
eagerly up the road. Scarcely drawing the rein, Blantyre shouted, “Which
way?” “To the right!” cried the woman, pointing with her hand, and away
we went up the right-hand road; then for a moment we caught sight of
her; another bend and she was hidden again. Several times we caught
glimpses, and then lost them. We scarcely seemed to gain ground upon
them at all. An old road-mender was standing near a heap of stones, his
shovel dropped and his hands raised. As we came near he made a sign to
speak. Blantyre drew the rein a little. “To the common, to the common,
sir; she has turned off there.” I knew this common very well; it was for
the most part very uneven ground, covered with heather and dark-green
furze bushes, with here and there a scrubby old thorn-tree; there were
also open spaces of fine short grass, with ant-hills and mole-turns
everywhere; the worst place I ever knew for a headlong gallop.

We had hardly turned on the common, when we caught sight again of the
green habit flying on before us. My lady's hat was gone, and her long
brown hair was streaming behind her. Her head and body were thrown back,
as if she were pulling with all her remaining strength, and as if that
strength were nearly exhausted. It was clear that the roughness of the
ground had very much lessened Lizzie's speed, and there seemed a chance
that we might overtake her.

While we were on the highroad, Blantyre had given me my head; but now,
with a light hand and a practiced eye, he guided me over the ground in
such a masterly manner that my pace was scarcely slackened, and we were
decidedly gaining on them.

About halfway across the heath there had been a wide dike recently cut,
and the earth from the cutting was cast up roughly on the other side.
Surely this would stop them! But no; with scarcely a pause Lizzie took
the leap, stumbled among the rough clods and fell. Blantyre groaned,
“Now, Auster, do your best!” He gave me a steady rein. I gathered myself
well together and with one determined leap cleared both dike and bank.

Motionless among the heather, with her face to the earth, lay my poor
young mistress. Blantyre kneeled down and called her name: there was no
sound. Gently he turned her face upward: it was ghastly white and
the eyes were closed. “Annie, dear Annie, do speak!” But there was no
answer. He unbuttoned her habit, loosened her collar, felt her hands and
wrist, then started up and looked wildly round him for help.

At no great distance there were two men cutting turf, who, seeing Lizzie
running wild without a rider, had left their work to catch her.

Blantyre's halloo soon brought them to the spot. The foremost man seemed
much troubled at the sight, and asked what he could do.

“Can you ride?”

“Well, sir, I bean't much of a horseman, but I'd risk my neck for the
Lady Anne; she was uncommon good to my wife in the winter.”

“Then mount this horse, my friend--your neck will be quite safe--and
ride to the doctor's and ask him to come instantly; then on to the hall;
tell them all that you know, and bid them send me the carriage, with
Lady Anne's maid and help. I shall stay here.”

“All right, sir, I'll do my best, and I pray God the dear young lady may
open her eyes soon.” Then, seeing the other man, he called out, “Here,
Joe, run for some water, and tell my missis to come as quick as she can
to the Lady Anne.”

He then somehow scrambled into the saddle, and with a “Gee up” and a
clap on my sides with both his legs, he started on his journey, making
a little circuit to avoid the dike. He had no whip, which seemed to
trouble him; but my pace soon cured that difficulty, and he found the
best thing he could do was to stick to the saddle and hold me in, which
he did manfully. I shook him as little as I could help, but once or
twice on the rough ground he called out, “Steady! Woah! Steady!” On the
highroad we were all right; and at the doctor's and the hall he did his
errand like a good man and true. They asked him in to take a drop of
something. “No, no,” he said; “I'll be back to 'em again by a short cut
through the fields, and be there afore the carriage.”

There was a great deal of hurry and excitement after the news became
known. I was just turned into my box; the saddle and bridle were taken
off, and a cloth thrown over me.

Ginger was saddled and sent off in great haste for Lord George, and I
soon heard the carriage roll out of the yard.

It seemed a long time before Ginger came back, and before we were left
alone; and then she told me all that she had seen.

“I can't tell much,” she said. “We went a gallop nearly all the way, and
got there just as the doctor rode up. There was a woman sitting on the
ground with the lady's head in her lap. The doctor poured something into
her mouth, but all that I heard was, 'She is not dead.' Then I was led
off by a man to a little distance. After awhile she was taken to
the carriage, and we came home together. I heard my master say to
a gentleman who stopped him to inquire, that he hoped no bones were
broken, but that she had not spoken yet.”

When Lord George took Ginger for hunting, York shook his head; he said
it ought to be a steady hand to train a horse for the first season, and
not a random rider like Lord George.

Ginger used to like it very much, but sometimes when she came back I
could see that she had been very much strained, and now and then she
gave a short cough. She had too much spirit to complain, but I could not
help feeling anxious about her.

Two days after the accident Blantyre paid me a visit; he patted me and
praised me very much; he told Lord George that he was sure the horse
knew of Annie's danger as well as he did. “I could not have held him in
if I would,” said he, “she ought never to ride any other horse.” I found
by their conversation that my young mistress was now out of danger, and
would soon be able to ride again. This was good news to me and I looked
forward to a happy life.




25 Reuben Smith


Now I must say a little about Reuben Smith, who was left in charge of
the stables when York went to London. No one more thoroughly understood
his business than he did, and when he was all right there could not be
a more faithful or valuable man. He was gentle and very clever in his
management of horses, and could doctor them almost as well as a
farrier, for he had lived two years with a veterinary surgeon. He was a
first-rate driver; he could take a four-in-hand or a tandem as easily
as a pair. He was a handsome man, a good scholar, and had very pleasant
manners. I believe everybody liked him; certainly the horses did. The
only wonder was that he should be in an under situation and not in the
place of a head coachman like York; but he had one great fault and that
was the love of drink. He was not like some men, always at it; he used
to keep steady for weeks or months together, and then he would break
out and have a “bout” of it, as York called it, and be a disgrace to
himself, a terror to his wife, and a nuisance to all that had to do with
him. He was, however, so useful that two or three times York had hushed
the matter up and kept it from the earl's knowledge; but one night, when
Reuben had to drive a party home from a ball he was so drunk that he
could not hold the reins, and a gentleman of the party had to mount the
box and drive the ladies home. Of course, this could not be hidden, and
Reuben was at once dismissed; his poor wife and little children had to
turn out of the pretty cottage by the park gate and go where they could.
Old Max told me all this, for it happened a good while ago; but shortly
before Ginger and I came Smith had been taken back again. York had
interceded for him with the earl, who is very kind-hearted, and the man
had promised faithfully that he would never taste another drop as long
as he lived there. He had kept his promise so well that York thought he
might be safely trusted to fill his place while he was away, and he was
so clever and honest that no one else seemed so well fitted for it.

It was now early in April, and the family was expected home some time in
May. The light brougham was to be fresh done up, and as Colonel Blantyre
was obliged to return to his regiment it was arranged that Smith should
drive him to the town in it, and ride back; for this purpose he took the
saddle with him, and I was chosen for the journey. At the station the
colonel put some money into Smith's hand and bid him good-by, saying,
“Take care of your young mistress, Reuben, and don't let Black Auster be
hacked about by any random young prig that wants to ride him--keep him
for the lady.”

We left the carriage at the maker's, and Smith rode me to the White
Lion, and ordered the hostler to feed me well, and have me ready for him
at four o'clock. A nail in one of my front shoes had started as I came
along, but the hostler did not notice it till just about four o'clock.
Smith did not come into the yard till five, and then he said he should
not leave till six, as he had met with some old friends. The man then
told him of the nail, and asked if he should have the shoe looked to.

“No,” said Smith, “that will be all right till we get home.”

He spoke in a very loud, offhand way, and I thought it very unlike him
not to see about the shoe, as he was generally wonderfully particular
about loose nails in our shoes. He did not come at six nor seven, nor
eight, and it was nearly nine o'clock before he called for me, and then
it was with a loud, rough voice. He seemed in a very bad temper, and
abused the hostler, though I could not tell what for.

The landlord stood at the door and said, “Have a care, Mr. Smith!” but
he answered angrily with an oath; and almost before he was out of the
town he began to gallop, frequently giving me a sharp cut with his whip,
though I was going at full speed. The moon had not yet risen, and it was
very dark. The roads were stony, having been recently mended; going over
them at this pace, my shoe became looser, and as we neared the turnpike
gate it came off.

If Smith had been in his right senses he would have been sensible of
something wrong in my pace, but he was too drunk to notice.

Beyond the turnpike was a long piece of road, upon which fresh stones
had just been laid--large sharp stones, over which no horse could be
driven quickly without risk of danger. Over this road, with one shoe
gone, I was forced to gallop at my utmost speed, my rider meanwhile
cutting into me with his whip, and with wild curses urging me to go
still faster. Of course my shoeless foot suffered dreadfully; the hoof
was broken and split down to the very quick, and the inside was terribly
cut by the sharpness of the stones.

This could not go on; no horse could keep his footing under such
circumstances; the pain was too great. I stumbled, and fell with
violence on both my knees. Smith was flung off by my fall, and, owing to
the speed I was going at, he must have fallen with great force. I soon
recovered my feet and limped to the side of the road, where it was free
from stones. The moon had just risen above the hedge, and by its light
I could see Smith lying a few yards beyond me. He did not rise; he made
one slight effort to do so, and then there was a heavy groan. I could
have groaned, too, for I was suffering intense pain both from my foot
and knees; but horses are used to bear their pain in silence. I uttered
no sound, but I stood there and listened. One more heavy groan from
Smith; but though he now lay in the full moonlight I could see no
motion. I could do nothing for him nor myself, but, oh! how I listened
for the sound of horse, or wheels, or footsteps! The road was not much
frequented, and at this time of the night we might stay for hours before
help came to us. I stood watching and listening. It was a calm, sweet
April night; there were no sounds but a few low notes of a nightingale,
and nothing moved but the white clouds near the moon and a brown owl
that flitted over the hedge. It made me think of the summer nights long
ago, when I used to lie beside my mother in the green pleasant meadow at
Farmer Grey's.




26 How it Ended


It must have been nearly midnight when I heard at a great distance the
sound of a horse's feet. Sometimes the sound died away, then it grew
clearer again and nearer. The road to Earlshall led through woods that
belonged to the earl; the sound came in that direction, and I hoped it
might be some one coming in search of us. As the sound came nearer and
nearer I was almost sure I could distinguish Ginger's step; a little
nearer still, and I could tell she was in the dog-cart. I neighed
loudly, and was overjoyed to hear an answering neigh from Ginger, and
men's voices. They came slowly over the stones, and stopped at the dark
figure that lay upon the ground.

One of the men jumped out, and stooped down over it. “It is Reuben,” he
said, “and he does not stir!”

The other man followed, and bent over him. “He's dead,” he said; “feel
how cold his hands are.”

They raised him up, but there was no life, and his hair was soaked with
blood. They laid him down again, and came and looked at me. They soon
saw my cut knees.

“Why, the horse has been down and thrown him! Who would have thought the
black horse would have done that? Nobody thought he could fall. Reuben
must have been lying here for hours! Odd, too, that the horse has not
moved from the place.”

Robert then attempted to lead me forward. I made a step, but almost fell
again.

“Halloo! he's bad in his foot as well as his knees. Look here--his hoof
is cut all to pieces; he might well come down, poor fellow! I tell you
what, Ned, I'm afraid it hasn't been all right with Reuben. Just think
of his riding a horse over these stones without a shoe! Why, if he had
been in his right senses he would just as soon have tried to ride him
over the moon. I'm afraid it has been the old thing over again. Poor
Susan! she looked awfully pale when she came to my house to ask if
he had not come home. She made believe she was not a bit anxious, and
talked of a lot of things that might have kept him. But for all that she
begged me to go and meet him. But what must we do? There's the horse to
get home as well as the body, and that will be no easy matter.”

Then followed a conversation between them, till it was agreed that
Robert, as the groom, should lead me, and that Ned must take the body.
It was a hard job to get it into the dog-cart, for there was no one to
hold Ginger; but she knew as well as I did what was going on, and stood
as still as a stone. I noticed that, because, if she had a fault, it was
that she was impatient in standing.

Ned started off very slowly with his sad load, and Robert came and
looked at my foot again; then he took his handkerchief and bound it
closely round, and so he led me home. I shall never forget that night
walk; it was more than three miles. Robert led me on very slowly, and I
limped and hobbled on as well as I could with great pain. I am sure he
was sorry for me, for he often patted and encouraged me, talking to me
in a pleasant voice.

At last I reached my own box, and had some corn; and after Robert
had wrapped up my knees in wet cloths, he tied up my foot in a bran
poultice, to draw out the heat and cleanse it before the horse-doctor
saw it in the morning, and I managed to get myself down on the straw,
and slept in spite of the pain.

The next day after the farrier had examined my wounds, he said he hoped
the joint was not injured; and if so, I should not be spoiled for work,
but I should never lose the blemish. I believe they did the best to make
a good cure, but it was a long and painful one. Proud flesh, as they
called it, came up in my knees, and was burned out with caustic; and
when at last it was healed, they put a blistering fluid over the front
of both knees to bring all the hair off; they had some reason for this,
and I suppose it was all right.

As Smith's death had been so sudden, and no one was there to see it,
there was an inquest held. The landlord and hostler at the White Lion,
with several other people, gave evidence that he was intoxicated when he
started from the inn. The keeper of the toll-gate said he rode at a hard
gallop through the gate; and my shoe was picked up among the stones, so
that the case was quite plain to them, and I was cleared of all blame.

Everybody pitied Susan. She was nearly out of her mind; she kept saying
over and over again, “Oh! he was so good--so good! It was all that
cursed drink; why will they sell that cursed drink? Oh Reuben, Reuben!”
 So she went on till after he was buried; and then, as she had no home or
relations, she, with her six little children, was obliged once more to
leave the pleasant home by the tall oak-trees, and go into that great
gloomy Union House.




27 Ruined and Going Downhill


As soon as my knees were sufficiently healed I was turned into a small
meadow for a month or two; no other creature was there; and though I
enjoyed the liberty and the sweet grass, yet I had been so long used to
society that I felt very lonely. Ginger and I had become fast friends,
and now I missed her company extremely. I often neighed when I heard
horses' feet passing in the road, but I seldom got an answer; till one
morning the gate was opened, and who should come in but dear old Ginger.
The man slipped off her halter, and left her there. With a joyful whinny
I trotted up to her; we were both glad to meet, but I soon found that it
was not for our pleasure that she was brought to be with me. Her story
would be too long to tell, but the end of it was that she had been
ruined by hard riding, and was now turned off to see what rest would do.

Lord George was young and would take no warning; he was a hard rider,
and would hunt whenever he could get the chance, quite careless of his
horse. Soon after I left the stable there was a steeplechase, and he
determined to ride. Though the groom told him she was a little strained,
and was not fit for the race, he did not believe it, and on the day of
the race urged Ginger to keep up with the foremost riders. With her high
spirit, she strained herself to the utmost; she came in with the first
three horses, but her wind was touched, besides which he was too heavy
for her, and her back was strained. “And so,” she said, “here we are,
ruined in the prime of our youth and strength, you by a drunkard, and I
by a fool; it is very hard.” We both felt in ourselves that we were not
what we had been. However, that did not spoil the pleasure we had in
each other's company; we did not gallop about as we once did, but we
used to feed, and lie down together, and stand for hours under one
of the shady lime-trees with our heads close to each other; and so we
passed our time till the family returned from town.

One day we saw the earl come into the meadow, and York was with him.
Seeing who it was, we stood still under our lime-tree, and let them come
up to us. They examined us carefully. The earl seemed much annoyed.

“There is three hundred pounds flung away for no earthly use,” said he;
“but what I care most for is that these horses of my old friend, who
thought they would find a good home with me, are ruined. The mare shall
have a twelve-month's run, and we shall see what that will do for her;
but the black one, he must be sold; 'tis a great pity, but I could not
have knees like these in my stables.”

“No, my lord, of course not,” said York; “but he might get a place where
appearance is not of much consequence, and still be well treated. I know
a man in Bath, the master of some livery stables, who often wants a
good horse at a low figure; I know he looks well after his horses.
The inquest cleared the horse's character, and your lordship's
recommendation, or mine, would be sufficient warrant for him.”

“You had better write to him, York. I should be more particular about
the place than the money he would fetch.”

After this they left us.

“They'll soon take you away,” said Ginger, “and I shall lose the only
friend I have, and most likely we shall never see each other again. 'Tis
a hard world!”

About a week after this Robert came into the field with a halter, which
he slipped over my head, and led me away. There was no leave-taking
of Ginger; we neighed to each other as I was led off, and she trotted
anxiously along by the hedge, calling to me as long as she could hear
the sound of my feet.

Through the recommendation of York, I was bought by the master of the
livery stables. I had to go by train, which was new to me, and required
a good deal of courage the first time; but as I found the puffing,
rushing, whistling, and, more than all, the trembling of the horse-box
in which I stood did me no real harm, I soon took it quietly.

When I reached the end of my journey I found myself in a tolerably
comfortable stable, and well attended to. These stables were not so
airy and pleasant as those I had been used to. The stalls were laid on
a slope instead of being level, and as my head was kept tied to the
manger, I was obliged always to stand on the slope, which was very
fatiguing. Men do not seem to know yet that horses can do more work if
they can stand comfortably and can turn about; however, I was well fed
and well cleaned, and, on the whole, I think our master took as much
care of us as he could. He kept a good many horses and carriages of
different kinds for hire. Sometimes his own men drove them; at
others, the horse and chaise were let to gentlemen or ladies who drove
themselves.




28 A Job Horse and His Drivers


Hitherto I had always been driven by people who at least knew how to
drive; but in this place I was to get my experience of all the different
kinds of bad and ignorant driving to which we horses are subjected; for
I was a “job horse”, and was let out to all sorts of people who wished
to hire me; and as I was good-tempered and gentle, I think I was oftener
let out to the ignorant drivers than some of the other horses, because
I could be depended upon. It would take a long time to tell of all the
different styles in which I was driven, but I will mention a few of
them.

First, there were the tight-rein drivers--men who seemed to think that
all depended on holding the reins as hard as they could, never relaxing
the pull on the horse's mouth, or giving him the least liberty of
movement. They are always talking about “keeping the horse well in
hand”, and “holding a horse up”, just as if a horse was not made to hold
himself up.

Some poor, broken-down horses, whose mouths have been made hard and
insensible by just such drivers as these, may, perhaps, find some
support in it; but for a horse who can depend upon his own legs, and who
has a tender mouth and is easily guided, it is not only tormenting, but
it is stupid.

Then there are the loose-rein drivers, who let the reins lie easily on
our backs, and their own hand rest lazily on their knees. Of course,
such gentlemen have no control over a horse, if anything happens
suddenly. If a horse shies, or starts, or stumbles, they are nowhere,
and cannot help the horse or themselves till the mischief is done. Of
course, for myself I had no objection to it, as I was not in the habit
either of starting or stumbling, and had only been used to depend on my
driver for guidance and encouragement. Still, one likes to feel the rein
a little in going downhill, and likes to know that one's driver is not
gone to sleep.

Besides, a slovenly way of driving gets a horse into bad and often lazy
habits, and when he changes hands he has to be whipped out of them with
more or less pain and trouble. Squire Gordon always kept us to our best
paces and our best manners. He said that spoiling a horse and letting
him get into bad habits was just as cruel as spoiling a child, and both
had to suffer for it afterward.

Besides, these drivers are often careless altogether, and will attend to
anything else more than their horses. I went out in the phaeton one day
with one of them; he had a lady and two children behind. He flopped the
reins about as we started, and of course gave me several unmeaning cuts
with the whip, though I was fairly off. There had been a good deal of
road-mending going on, and even where the stones were not freshly laid
down there were a great many loose ones about. My driver was laughing
and joking with the lady and the children, and talking about the country
to the right and the left; but he never thought it worth while to keep
an eye on his horse or to drive on the smoothest parts of the road; and
so it easily happened that I got a stone in one of my fore feet.

Now, if Mr. Gordon or John, or in fact any good driver, had been there,
he would have seen that something was wrong before I had gone three
paces. Or even if it had been dark a practiced hand would have felt by
the rein that there was something wrong in the step, and they would have
got down and picked out the stone. But this man went on laughing and
talking, while at every step the stone became more firmly wedged between
my shoe and the frog of my foot. The stone was sharp on the inside and
round on the outside, which, as every one knows, is the most dangerous
kind that a horse can pick up, at the same time cutting his foot and
making him most liable to stumble and fall.

Whether the man was partly blind or only very careless I can't say, but
he drove me with that stone in my foot for a good half-mile before he
saw anything. By that time I was going so lame with the pain that at
last he saw it, and called out, “Well, here's a go! Why, they have sent
us out with a lame horse! What a shame!”

He then chucked the reins and flipped about with the whip, saying, “Now,
then, it's no use playing the old soldier with me; there's the journey
to go, and it's no use turning lame and lazy.”

Just at this time a farmer came riding up on a brown cob. He lifted his
hat and pulled up.

“I beg your pardon, sir,” he said, “but I think there is something the
matter with your horse; he goes very much as if he had a stone in
his shoe. If you will allow me I will look at his feet; these loose
scattered stones are confounded dangerous things for the horses.”

“He's a hired horse,” said my driver. “I don't know what's the matter
with him, but it is a great shame to send out a lame beast like this.”

The farmer dismounted, and slipping his rein over his arm at once took
up my near foot.

“Bless me, there's a stone! Lame! I should think so!”

At first he tried to dislodge it with his hand, but as it was now
very tightly wedged he drew a stone-pick out of his pocket, and very
carefully and with some trouble got it out. Then holding it up he said,
“There, that's the stone your horse had picked up. It is a wonder he did
not fall down and break his knees into the bargain!”

“Well, to be sure!” said my driver; “that is a queer thing! I never knew
that horses picked up stones before.”

“Didn't you?” said the farmer rather contemptuously; “but they do,
though, and the best of them will do it, and can't help it sometimes on
such roads as these. And if you don't want to lame your horse you must
look sharp and get them out quickly. This foot is very much bruised,”
 he said, setting it gently down and patting me. “If I might advise,
sir, you had better drive him gently for awhile; the foot is a good deal
hurt, and the lameness will not go off directly.”

Then mounting his cob and raising his hat to the lady he trotted off.

When he was gone my driver began to flop the reins about and whip the
harness, by which I understood that I was to go on, which of course I
did, glad that the stone was gone, but still in a good deal of pain.

This was the sort of experience we job horses often came in for.




29 Cockneys


Then there is the steam-engine style of driving; these drivers were
mostly people from towns, who never had a horse of their own and
generally traveled by rail.

They always seemed to think that a horse was something like a
steam-engine, only smaller. At any rate, they think that if only they
pay for it a horse is bound to go just as far and just as fast and with
just as heavy a load as they please. And be the roads heavy and muddy,
or dry and good; be they stony or smooth, uphill or downhill, it is all
the same--on, on, on, one must go, at the same pace, with no relief and
no consideration.

These people never think of getting out to walk up a steep hill. Oh, no,
they have paid to ride, and ride they will! The horse? Oh, he's used
to it! What were horses made for, if not to drag people uphill? Walk! A
good joke indeed! And so the whip is plied and the rein is chucked and
often a rough, scolding voice cries out, “Go along, you lazy beast!” And
then another slash of the whip, when all the time we are doing our
very best to get along, uncomplaining and obedient, though often sorely
harassed and down-hearted.

This steam-engine style of driving wears us up faster than any other
kind. I would far rather go twenty miles with a good considerate driver
than I would go ten with some of these; it would take less out of me.

Another thing, they scarcely ever put on the brake, however steep the
downhill may be, and thus bad accidents sometimes happen; or if they do
put it on, they often forget to take it off at the bottom of the hill,
and more than once I have had to pull halfway up the next hill, with one
of the wheels held by the brake, before my driver chose to think about
it; and that is a terrible strain on a horse.

Then these cockneys, instead of starting at an easy pace, as a gentleman
would do, generally set off at full speed from the very stable-yard; and
when they want to stop, they first whip us, and then pull up so suddenly
that we are nearly thrown on our haunches, and our mouths jagged with
the bit--they call that pulling up with a dash; and when they turn a
corner they do it as sharply as if there were no right side or wrong
side of the road.

I well remember one spring evening I and Rory had been out for the day.
(Rory was the horse that mostly went with me when a pair was ordered,
and a good honest fellow he was.) We had our own driver, and as he was
always considerate and gentle with us, we had a very pleasant day. We
were coming home at a good smart pace, about twilight. Our road turned
sharp to the left; but as we were close to the hedge on our own side,
and there was plenty of room to pass, our driver did not pull us in. As
we neared the corner I heard a horse and two wheels coming rapidly down
the hill toward us. The hedge was high, and I could see nothing, but the
next moment we were upon each other. Happily for me, I was on the side
next the hedge. Rory was on the left side of the pole, and had not even
a shaft to protect him. The man who was driving was making straight for
the corner, and when he came in sight of us he had no time to pull over
to his own side. The whole shock came upon Rory. The gig shaft ran right
into the chest, making him stagger back with a cry that I shall never
forget. The other horse was thrown upon his haunches and one shaft
broken. It turned out that it was a horse from our own stables, with the
high-wheeled gig that the young men were so fond of.

The driver was one of those random, ignorant fellows, who don't even
know which is their own side of the road, or, if they know, don't care.
And there was poor Rory with his flesh torn open and bleeding, and the
blood streaming down. They said if it had been a little more to one side
it would have killed him; and a good thing for him, poor fellow, if it
had.

As it was, it was a long time before the wound healed, and then he was
sold for coal-carting; and what that is, up and down those steep hills,
only horses know. Some of the sights I saw there, where a horse had to
come downhill with a heavily loaded two-wheel cart behind him, on which
no brake could be placed, make me sad even now to think of.

After Rory was disabled I often went in the carriage with a mare named
Peggy, who stood in the next stall to mine. She was a strong, well-made
animal, of a bright dun color, beautifully dappled, and with a
dark-brown mane and tail. There was no high breeding about her, but she
was very pretty and remarkably sweet-tempered and willing. Still, there
was an anxious look about her eye, by which I knew that she had some
trouble. The first time we went out together I thought she had a very
odd pace; she seemed to go partly a trot, partly a canter, three or four
paces, and then a little jump forward.

It was very unpleasant for any horse who pulled with her, and made me
quite fidgety. When we got home I asked her what made her go in that
odd, awkward way.

“Ah,” she said in a troubled manner, “I know my paces are very bad, but
what can I do? It really is not my fault; it is just because my legs are
so short. I stand nearly as high as you, but your legs are a good three
inches longer above your knee than mine, and of course you can take a
much longer step and go much faster. You see I did not make myself.
I wish I could have done so; I would have had long legs then. All my
troubles come from my short legs,” said Peggy, in a desponding tone.

“But how is it,” I said, “when you are so strong and good-tempered and
willing?”

“Why, you see,” said she, “men will go so fast, and if one can't keep up
to other horses it is nothing but whip, whip, whip, all the time. And so
I have had to keep up as I could, and have got into this ugly shuffling
pace. It was not always so; when I lived with my first master I always
went a good regular trot, but then he was not in such a hurry. He was a
young clergyman in the country, and a good, kind master he was. He had
two churches a good way apart, and a great deal of work, but he never
scolded or whipped me for not going faster. He was very fond of me.
I only wish I was with him now; but he had to leave and go to a large
town, and then I was sold to a farmer.

“Some farmers, you know, are capital masters; but I think this one was a
low sort of man. He cared nothing about good horses or good driving; he
only cared for going fast. I went as fast as I could, but that would
not do, and he was always whipping; so I got into this way of making a
spring forward to keep up. On market nights he used to stay very late at
the inn, and then drive home at a gallop.

“One dark night he was galloping home as usual, when all of a sudden the
wheel came against some great heavy thing in the road, and turned the
gig over in a minute. He was thrown out and his arm broken, and some of
his ribs, I think. At any rate, it was the end of my living with him,
and I was not sorry. But you see it will be the same everywhere for me,
if men must go so fast. I wish my legs were longer!”

Poor Peggy! I was very sorry for her, and I could not comfort her, for
I knew how hard it was upon slow-paced horses to be put with fast ones;
all the whipping comes to their share, and they can't help it.

She was often used in the phaeton, and was very much liked by some of
the ladies, because she was so gentle; and some time after this she was
sold to two ladies who drove themselves, and wanted a safe, good horse.

I met her several times out in the country, going a good steady pace,
and looking as gay and contented as a horse could be. I was very glad to
see her, for she deserved a good place.

After she left us another horse came in her stead. He was young, and had
a bad name for shying and starting, by which he had lost a good place. I
asked him what made him shy.

“Well, I hardly know,” he said. “I was timid when I was young, and was a
good deal frightened several times, and if I saw anything strange I
used to turn and look at it--you see, with our blinkers one can't see
or understand what a thing is unless one looks round--and then my master
always gave me a whipping, which of course made me start on, and did not
make me less afraid. I think if he would have let me just look at things
quietly, and see that there was nothing to hurt me, it would have been
all right, and I should have got used to them. One day an old gentleman
was riding with him, and a large piece of white paper or rag blew across
just on one side of me. I shied and started forward. My master as usual
whipped me smartly, but the old man cried out, 'You're wrong! you're
wrong! You should never whip a horse for shying; he shies because he is
frightened, and you only frighten him more and make the habit worse.'
So I suppose all men don't do so. I am sure I don't want to shy for the
sake of it; but how should one know what is dangerous and what is not,
if one is never allowed to get used to anything? I am never afraid of
what I know. Now I was brought up in a park where there were deer; of
course I knew them as well as I did a sheep or a cow, but they are not
common, and I know many sensible horses who are frightened at them, and
who kick up quite a shindy before they will pass a paddock where there
are deer.”

I knew what my companion said was true, and I wished that every young
horse had as good masters as Farmer Grey and Squire Gordon.

Of course we sometimes came in for good driving here. I remember one
morning I was put into the light gig, and taken to a house in Pulteney
Street. Two gentlemen came out; the taller of them came round to my
head; he looked at the bit and bridle, and just shifted the collar with
his hand, to see if it fitted comfortably.

“Do you consider this horse wants a curb?” he said to the hostler.

“Well,” said the man, “I should say he would go just as well without;
he has an uncommon good mouth, and though he has a fine spirit he has no
vice; but we generally find people like the curb.”

“I don't like it,” said the gentleman; “be so good as to take it off,
and put the rein in at the cheek. An easy mouth is a great thing on a
long journey, is it not, old fellow?” he said, patting my neck.

Then he took the reins, and they both got up. I can remember now how
quietly he turned me round, and then with a light feel of the rein, and
drawing the whip gently across my back, we were off.

I arched my neck and set off at my best pace. I found I had some one
behind me who knew how a good horse ought to be driven. It seemed like
old times again, and made me feel quite gay.

This gentleman took a great liking to me, and after trying me several
times with the saddle he prevailed upon my master to sell me to a friend
of his, who wanted a safe, pleasant horse for riding. And so it came to
pass that in the summer I was sold to Mr. Barry.




30 A Thief


My new master was an unmarried man. He lived at Bath, and was much
engaged in business. His doctor advised him to take horse exercise, and
for this purpose he bought me. He hired a stable a short distance from
his lodgings, and engaged a man named Filcher as groom. My master knew
very little about horses, but he treated me well, and I should have had
a good and easy place but for circumstances of which he was ignorant. He
ordered the best hay with plenty of oats, crushed beans, and bran,
with vetches, or rye grass, as the man might think needful. I heard the
master give the order, so I knew there was plenty of good food, and I
thought I was well off.

For a few days all went on well. I found that my groom understood
his business. He kept the stable clean and airy, and he groomed me
thoroughly; and was never otherwise than gentle. He had been an hostler
in one of the great hotels in Bath. He had given that up, and now
cultivated fruit and vegetables for the market, and his wife bred and
fattened poultry and rabbits for sale. After awhile it seemed to me that
my oats came very short; I had the beans, but bran was mixed with them
instead of oats, of which there were very few; certainly not more than a
quarter of what there should have been. In two or three weeks this began
to tell upon my strength and spirits. The grass food, though very good,
was not the thing to keep up my condition without corn. However, I
could not complain, nor make known my wants. So it went on for about two
months; and I wondered that my master did not see that something was
the matter. However, one afternoon he rode out into the country to see a
friend of his, a gentleman farmer, who lived on the road to Wells.

This gentleman had a very quick eye for horses; and after he had
welcomed his friend he said, casting his eye over me:

“It seems to me, Barry, that your horse does not look so well as he did
when you first had him; has he been well?”

“Yes, I believe so,” said my master; “but he is not nearly so lively as
he was; my groom tells me that horses are always dull and weak in the
autumn, and that I must expect it.”

“Autumn, fiddlesticks!” said the farmer. “Why, this is only August; and
with your light work and good food he ought not to go down like this,
even if it was autumn. How do you feed him?”

My master told him. The other shook his head slowly, and began to feel
me over.

“I can't say who eats your corn, my dear fellow, but I am much mistaken
if your horse gets it. Have you ridden very fast?”

“No, very gently.”

“Then just put your hand here,” said he, passing his hand over my neck
and shoulder; “he is as warm and damp as a horse just come up from
grass. I advise you to look into your stable a little more. I hate to be
suspicious, and, thank heaven, I have no cause to be, for I can trust my
men, present or absent; but there are mean scoundrels, wicked enough to
rob a dumb beast of his food. You must look into it.” And turning to
his man, who had come to take me, “Give this horse a right good feed of
bruised oats, and don't stint him.”

“Dumb beasts!” Yes, we are; but if I could have spoken I could have told
my master where his oats went to. My groom used to come every morning
about six o'clock, and with him a little boy, who always had a covered
basket with him. He used to go with his father into the harness-room,
where the corn was kept, and I could see them, when the door stood ajar,
fill a little bag with oats out of the bin, and then he used to be off.

Five or six mornings after this, just as the boy had left the stable,
the door was pushed open, and a policeman walked in, holding the child
tight by the arm; another policeman followed, and locked the door on the
inside, saying, “Show me the place where your father keeps his rabbits'
food.”

The boy looked very frightened and began to cry; but there was no
escape, and he led the way to the corn-bin. Here the policeman found
another empty bag like that which was found full of oats in the boy's
basket.

Filcher was cleaning my feet at the time, but they soon saw him, and
though he blustered a good deal they walked him off to the “lock-up”,
and his boy with him. I heard afterward that the boy was not held to be
guilty, but the man was sentenced to prison for two months.




31 A Humbug


My master was not immediately suited, but in a few days my new groom
came. He was a tall, good-looking fellow enough; but if ever there was
a humbug in the shape of a groom Alfred Smirk was the man. He was very
civil to me, and never used me ill; in fact, he did a great deal of
stroking and patting when his master was there to see it. He always
brushed my mane and tail with water and my hoofs with oil before he
brought me to the door, to make me look smart; but as to cleaning my
feet or looking to my shoes, or grooming me thoroughly, he thought no
more of that than if I had been a cow. He left my bit rusty, my saddle
damp, and my crupper stiff.

Alfred Smirk considered himself very handsome; he spent a great deal of
time about his hair, whiskers and necktie, before a little looking-glass
in the harness-room. When his master was speaking to him it was always,
“Yes, sir; yes, sir”--touching his hat at every word; and every one
thought he was a very nice young man and that Mr. Barry was very
fortunate to meet with him. I should say he was the laziest, most
conceited fellow I ever came near. Of course, it was a great thing not
to be ill-used, but then a horse wants more than that. I had a loose
box, and might have been very comfortable if he had not been too
indolent to clean it out. He never took all the straw away, and the
smell from what lay underneath was very bad; while the strong vapors
that rose made my eyes smart and inflame, and I did not feel the same
appetite for my food.

One day his master came in and said, “Alfred, the stable smells rather
strong; should not you give that stall a good scrub and throw down
plenty of water?”

“Well, sir,” he said, touching his cap, “I'll do so if you please, sir;
but it is rather dangerous, sir, throwing down water in a horse's box;
they are very apt to take cold, sir. I should not like to do him an
injury, but I'll do it if you please, sir.”

“Well,” said his master, “I should not like him to take cold; but I
don't like the smell of this stable. Do you think the drains are all
right?”

“Well, sir, now you mention it, I think the drain does sometimes send
back a smell; there may be something wrong, sir.”

“Then send for the bricklayer and have it seen to,” said his master.

“Yes, sir, I will.”

The bricklayer came and pulled up a great many bricks, but found nothing
amiss; so he put down some lime and charged the master five shillings,
and the smell in my box was as bad as ever. But that was not all:
standing as I did on a quantity of moist straw my feet grew unhealthy
and tender, and the master used to say:

“I don't know what is the matter with this horse; he goes very
fumble-footed. I am sometimes afraid he will stumble.”

“Yes, sir,” said Alfred, “I have noticed the same myself, when I have
exercised him.”

Now the fact was that he hardly ever did exercise me, and when the
master was busy I often stood for days together without stretching my
legs at all, and yet being fed just as high as if I were at hard work.
This often disordered my health, and made me sometimes heavy and dull,
but more often restless and feverish. He never even gave me a meal
of green food or a bran mash, which would have cooled me, for he
was altogether as ignorant as he was conceited; and then, instead of
exercise or change of food, I had to take horse balls and draughts;
which, beside the nuisance of having them poured down my throat, used to
make me feel ill and uncomfortable.

One day my feet were so tender that, trotting over some fresh stones
with my master on my back, I made two such serious stumbles that, as he
came down Lansdown into the city, he stopped at the farrier's, and asked
him to see what was the matter with me. The man took up my feet one
by one and examined them; then standing up and dusting his hands one
against the other, he said:

“Your horse has got the 'thrush', and badly, too; his feet are very
tender; it is fortunate that he has not been down. I wonder your groom
has not seen to it before. This is the sort of thing we find in foul
stables, where the litter is never properly cleaned out. If you will
send him here to-morrow I will attend to the hoof, and I will direct
your man how to apply the liniment which I will give him.”

The next day I had my feet thoroughly cleansed and stuffed with tow
soaked in some strong lotion; and an unpleasant business it was.

The farrier ordered all the litter to be taken out of my box day by day,
and the floor kept very clean. Then I was to have bran mashes, a little
green food, and not so much corn, till my feet were well again. With
this treatment I soon regained my spirits; but Mr. Barry was so much
disgusted at being twice deceived by his grooms that he determined to
give up keeping a horse, and to hire when he wanted one. I was therefore
kept till my feet were quite sound, and was then sold again.




Part III




32 A Horse Fair


No doubt a horse fair is a very amusing place to those who have nothing
to lose; at any rate, there is plenty to see.

Long strings of young horses out of the country, fresh from the marshes;
and droves of shaggy little Welsh ponies, no higher than Merrylegs; and
hundreds of cart horses of all sorts, some of them with their long tails
braided up and tied with scarlet cord; and a good many like myself,
handsome and high-bred, but fallen into the middle class, through some
accident or blemish, unsoundness of wind, or some other complaint. There
were some splendid animals quite in their prime, and fit for anything;
they were throwing out their legs and showing off their paces in high
style, as they were trotted out with a leading rein, the groom running
by the side. But round in the background there were a number of poor
things, sadly broken down with hard work, with their knees knuckling
over and their hind legs swinging out at every step, and there were some
very dejected-looking old horses, with the under lip hanging down and
the ears lying back heavily, as if there were no more pleasure in life,
and no more hope; there were some so thin you might see all their ribs,
and some with old sores on their backs and hips. These were sad sights
for a horse to look upon, who knows not but he may come to the same
state.

There was a great deal of bargaining, of running up and beating down;
and if a horse may speak his mind so far as he understands, I should say
there were more lies told and more trickery at that horse fair than a
clever man could give an account of. I was put with two or three other
strong, useful-looking horses, and a good many people came to look at
us. The gentlemen always turned from me when they saw my broken knees;
though the man who had me swore it was only a slip in the stall.

The first thing was to pull my mouth open, then to look at my eyes, then
feel all the way down my legs, and give me a hard feel of the skin and
flesh, and then try my paces. It was wonderful what a difference there
was in the way these things were done. Some did it in a rough, offhand
way, as if one was only a piece of wood; while others would take their
hands gently over one's body, with a pat now and then, as much as to
say, “By your leave.” Of course I judged a good deal of the buyers by
their manners to myself.

There was one man, I thought, if he would buy me, I should be happy.
He was not a gentleman, nor yet one of the loud, flashy sort that call
themselves so. He was rather a small man, but well made, and quick in
all his motions. I knew in a moment by the way he handled me, that he
was used to horses; he spoke gently, and his gray eye had a kindly,
cheery look in it. It may seem strange to say--but it is true all the
same--that the clean, fresh smell there was about him made me take to
him; no smell of old beer and tobacco, which I hated, but a fresh smell
as if he had come out of a hayloft. He offered twenty-three pounds for
me, but that was refused, and he walked away. I looked after him, but
he was gone, and a very hard-looking, loud-voiced man came. I was
dreadfully afraid he would have me; but he walked off. One or two more
came who did not mean business. Then the hard-faced man came back again
and offered twenty-three pounds. A very close bargain was being driven,
for my salesman began to think he should not get all he asked, and must
come down; but just then the gray-eyed man came back again. I could not
help reaching out my head toward him. He stroked my face kindly.

“Well, old chap,” he said, “I think we should suit each other. I'll give
twenty-four for him.”

“Say twenty-five and you shall have him.”

“Twenty-four ten,” said my friend, in a very decided tone, “and not
another sixpence--yes or no?”

“Done,” said the salesman; “and you may depend upon it there's a
monstrous deal of quality in that horse, and if you want him for cab
work he's a bargain.”

The money was paid on the spot, and my new master took my halter, and
led me out of the fair to an inn, where he had a saddle and bridle
ready. He gave me a good feed of oats and stood by while I ate it,
talking to himself and talking to me. Half an hour after we were on our
way to London, through pleasant lanes and country roads, until we came
into the great London thoroughfare, on which we traveled steadily, till
in the twilight we reached the great city. The gas lamps were already
lighted; there were streets to the right, and streets to the left, and
streets crossing each other, for mile upon mile. I thought we should
never come to the end of them. At last, in passing through one, we
came to a long cab stand, when my rider called out in a cheery voice,
“Good-night, governor!”

“Halloo!” cried a voice. “Have you got a good one?”

“I think so,” replied my owner.

“I wish you luck with him.”

“Thank you, governor,” and he rode on. We soon turned up one of the side
streets, and about halfway up that we turned into a very narrow street,
with rather poor-looking houses on one side, and what seemed to be
coach-houses and stables on the other.

My owner pulled up at one of the houses and whistled. The door flew
open, and a young woman, followed by a little girl and boy, ran out.
There was a very lively greeting as my rider dismounted.

“Now, then, Harry, my boy, open the gates, and mother will bring us the
lantern.”

The next minute they were all standing round me in a small stable-yard.

“Is he gentle, father?”

“Yes, Dolly, as gentle as your own kitten; come and pat him.”

At once the little hand was patting about all over my shoulder without
fear. How good it felt!

“Let me get him a bran mash while you rub him down,” said the mother.

“Do, Polly, it's just what he wants; and I know you've got a beautiful
mash ready for me.”

“Sausage dumpling and apple turnover!” shouted the boy, which set them
all laughing. I was led into a comfortable, clean-smelling stall, with
plenty of dry straw, and after a capital supper I lay down, thinking I
was going to be happy.




33 A London Cab Horse


Jeremiah Barker was my new master's name, but as every one called him
Jerry, I shall do the same. Polly, his wife, was just as good a match as
a man could have. She was a plump, trim, tidy little woman, with smooth,
dark hair, dark eyes, and a merry little mouth. The boy was twelve years
old, a tall, frank, good-tempered lad; and little Dorothy (Dolly they
called her) was her mother over again, at eight years old. They were all
wonderfully fond of each other; I never knew such a happy, merry family
before or since. Jerry had a cab of his own, and two horses, which he
drove and attended to himself. His other horse was a tall, white, rather
large-boned animal called “Captain”. He was old now, but when he was
young he must have been splendid; he had still a proud way of
holding his head and arching his neck; in fact, he was a high-bred,
fine-mannered, noble old horse, every inch of him. He told me that in
his early youth he went to the Crimean War; he belonged to an officer
in the cavalry, and used to lead the regiment. I will tell more of that
hereafter.

The next morning, when I was well-groomed, Polly and Dolly came into the
yard to see me and make friends. Harry had been helping his father since
the early morning, and had stated his opinion that I should turn out a
“regular brick”. Polly brought me a slice of apple, and Dolly a piece
of bread, and made as much of me as if I had been the “Black Beauty” of
olden time. It was a great treat to be petted again and talked to in a
gentle voice, and I let them see as well as I could that I wished to be
friendly. Polly thought I was very handsome, and a great deal too good
for a cab, if it was not for the broken knees.

“Of course there's no one to tell us whose fault that was,” said Jerry,
“and as long as I don't know I shall give him the benefit of the doubt;
for a firmer, neater stepper I never rode. We'll call him 'Jack', after
the old one--shall we, Polly?”

“Do,” she said, “for I like to keep a good name going.”

Captain went out in the cab all the morning. Harry came in after school
to feed me and give me water. In the afternoon I was put into the
cab. Jerry took as much pains to see if the collar and bridle fitted
comfortably as if he had been John Manly over again. When the crupper
was let out a hole or two it all fitted well. There was no check-rein,
no curb, nothing but a plain ring snaffle. What a blessing that was!

After driving through the side street we came to the large cab stand
where Jerry had said “Good-night”. On one side of this wide street were
high houses with wonderful shop fronts, and on the other was an old
church and churchyard, surrounded by iron palisades. Alongside these
iron rails a number of cabs were drawn up, waiting for passengers; bits
of hay were lying about on the ground; some of the men were standing
together talking; some were sitting on their boxes reading the
newspaper; and one or two were feeding their horses with bits of hay,
and giving them a drink of water. We pulled up in the rank at the back
of the last cab. Two or three men came round and began to look at me and
pass their remarks.

“Very good for a funeral,” said one.

“Too smart-looking,” said another, shaking his head in a very wise way;
“you'll find out something wrong one of these fine mornings, or my name
isn't Jones.”

“Well,” said Jerry pleasantly, “I suppose I need not find it out till it
finds me out, eh? And if so, I'll keep up my spirits a little longer.”

Then there came up a broad-faced man, dressed in a great gray coat
with great gray cape and great white buttons, a gray hat, and a blue
comforter loosely tied round his neck; his hair was gray, too; but
he was a jolly-looking fellow, and the other men made way for him.
He looked me all over, as if he had been going to buy me; and then
straightening himself up with a grunt, he said, “He's the right sort for
you, Jerry; I don't care what you gave for him, he'll be worth it.” Thus
my character was established on the stand.

This man's name was Grant, but he was called “Gray Grant”, or “Governor
Grant”. He had been the longest on that stand of any of the men, and
he took it upon himself to settle matters and stop disputes. He was
generally a good-humored, sensible man; but if his temper was a little
out, as it was sometimes when he had drunk too much, nobody liked to
come too near his fist, for he could deal a very heavy blow.

The first week of my life as a cab horse was very trying. I had never
been used to London, and the noise, the hurry, the crowds of horses,
carts, and carriages that I had to make my way through made me feel
anxious and harassed; but I soon found that I could perfectly trust my
driver, and then I made myself easy and got used to it.

Jerry was as good a driver as I had ever known, and what was better, he
took as much thought for his horses as he did for himself. He soon found
out that I was willing to work and do my best, and he never laid the
whip on me unless it was gently drawing the end of it over my back when
I was to go on; but generally I knew this quite well by the way in which
he took up the reins, and I believe his whip was more frequently stuck
up by his side than in his hand.

In a short time I and my master understood each other as well as horse
and man can do. In the stable, too, he did all that he could for our
comfort. The stalls were the old-fashioned style, too much on the slope;
but he had two movable bars fixed across the back of our stalls, so that
at night, and when we were resting, he just took off our halters and
put up the bars, and thus we could turn about and stand whichever way we
pleased, which is a great comfort.

Jerry kept us very clean, and gave us as much change of food as he
could, and always plenty of it; and not only that, but he always gave us
plenty of clean fresh water, which he allowed to stand by us both night
and day, except of course when we came in warm. Some people say that a
horse ought not to drink all he likes; but I know if we are allowed to
drink when we want it we drink only a little at a time, and it does us
a great deal more good than swallowing down half a bucketful at a time,
because we have been left without till we are thirsty and miserable.
Some grooms will go home to their beer and leave us for hours with our
dry hay and oats and nothing to moisten them; then of course we gulp
down too much at once, which helps to spoil our breathing and sometimes
chills our stomachs. But the best thing we had here was our Sundays for
rest; we worked so hard in the week that I do not think we could have
kept up to it but for that day; besides, we had then time to enjoy each
other's company. It was on these days that I learned my companion's
history.
Captain had been broken in and trained for an army horse; his first
owner was an officer of cavalry going out to the Crimean war. He said he
quite enjoyed the training with all the other horses, trotting together,
turning together, to the right hand or the left, halting at the word of
command, or dashing forward at full speed at the sound of the trumpet
or signal of the officer. He was, when young, a dark, dappled iron-gray,
and considered very handsome. His master, a young, high-spirited
gentleman, was very fond of him, and treated him from the first with the
greatest care and kindness. He told me he thought the life of an army
horse was very pleasant; but when it came to being sent abroad over the
sea in a great ship, he almost changed his mind.

“That part of it,” said he, “was dreadful! Of course we could not walk
off the land into the ship; so they were obliged to put strong straps
under our bodies, and then we were lifted off our legs in spite of our
struggles, and were swung through the air over the water, to the deck of
the great vessel. There we were placed in small close stalls, and never
for a long time saw the sky, or were able to stretch our legs. The ship
sometimes rolled about in high winds, and we were knocked about, and
felt bad enough.

“However, at last it came to an end, and we were hauled up, and swung
over again to the land; we were very glad, and snorted and neighed for
joy, when we once more felt firm ground under our feet.

“We soon found that the country we had come to was very different from
our own and that we had many hardships to endure besides the fighting;
but many of the men were so fond of their horses that they did
everything they could to make them comfortable in spite of snow, wet,
and all things out of order.”

“But what about the fighting?” said I, “was not that worse than anything
else?”

“Well,” said he, “I hardly know; we always liked to hear the trumpet
sound, and to be called out, and were impatient to start off, though
sometimes we had to stand for hours, waiting for the word of command;
and when the word was given we used to spring forward as gayly and
eagerly as if there were no cannon balls, bayonets, or bullets. I
believe so long as we felt our rider firm in the saddle, and his hand
steady on the bridle, not one of us gave way to fear, not even when the
terrible bomb-shells whirled through the air and burst into a thousand
pieces.

“I, with my noble master, went into many actions together without a
wound; and though I saw horses shot down with bullets, pierced through
with lances, and gashed with fearful saber-cuts; though we left them
dead on the field, or dying in the agony of their wounds, I don't think
I feared for myself. My master's cheery voice, as he encouraged his
men, made me feel as if he and I could not be killed. I had such perfect
trust in him that while he was guiding me I was ready to charge up
to the very cannon's mouth. I saw many brave men cut down, many fall
mortally wounded from their saddles. I had heard the cries and groans
of the dying, I had cantered over ground slippery with blood, and
frequently had to turn aside to avoid trampling on wounded man or horse,
but, until one dreadful day, I had never felt terror; that day I shall
never forget.”

Here old Captain paused for awhile and drew a long breath; I waited, and
he went on.

“It was one autumn morning, and as usual, an hour before daybreak our
cavalry had turned out, ready caparisoned for the day's work, whether
it might be fighting or waiting. The men stood by their horses waiting,
ready for orders. As the light increased there seemed to be some
excitement among the officers; and before the day was well begun we
heard the firing of the enemy's guns.

“Then one of the officers rode up and gave the word for the men to
mount, and in a second every man was in his saddle, and every horse
stood expecting the touch of the rein, or the pressure of his rider's
heels, all animated, all eager; but still we had been trained so well
that, except by the champing of our bits, and the restive tossing of our
heads from time to time, it could not be said that we stirred.

“My dear master and I were at the head of the line, and as all sat
motionless and watchful, he took a little stray lock of my mane which
had turned over on the wrong side, laid it over on the right, and
smoothed it down with his hand; then patting my neck, he said, 'We shall
have a day of it to-day, Bayard, my beauty; but we'll do our duty as we
have done.' He stroked my neck that morning more, I think, than he had
ever done before; quietly on and on, as if he were thinking of something
else. I loved to feel his hand on my neck, and arched my crest proudly
and happily; but I stood very still, for I knew all his moods, and when
he liked me to be quiet, and when gay.

“I cannot tell all that happened on that day, but I will tell of the
last charge that we made together; it was across a valley right in front
of the enemy's cannon. By this time we were well used to the roar of
heavy guns, the rattle of musket fire, and the flying of shot near us;
but never had I been under such a fire as we rode through on that day.
From the right, from the left, and from the front, shot and shell poured
in upon us. Many a brave man went down, many a horse fell, flinging his
rider to the earth; many a horse without a rider ran wildly out of the
ranks; then terrified at being alone, with no hand to guide him, came
pressing in among his old companions, to gallop with them to the charge.

“Fearful as it was, no one stopped, no one turned back. Every moment the
ranks were thinned, but as our comrades fell, we closed in to keep
them together; and instead of being shaken or staggered in our pace our
gallop became faster and faster as we neared the cannon.

“My master, my dear master was cheering on his comrades with his right
arm raised on high, when one of the balls whizzing close to my head
struck him. I felt him stagger with the shock, though he uttered no cry;
I tried to check my speed, but the sword dropped from his right hand,
the rein fell loose from the left, and sinking backward from the saddle
he fell to the earth; the other riders swept past us, and by the force
of their charge I was driven from the spot.

“I wanted to keep my place by his side and not leave him under that
rush of horses' feet, but it was in vain; and now without a master or a
friend I was alone on that great slaughter ground; then fear took hold
on me, and I trembled as I had never trembled before; and I too, as I
had seen other horses do, tried to join in the ranks and gallop with
them; but I was beaten off by the swords of the soldiers. Just then a
soldier whose horse had been killed under him caught at my bridle and
mounted me, and with this new master I was again going forward; but our
gallant company was cruelly overpowered, and those who remained alive
after the fierce fight for the guns came galloping back over the same
ground. Some of the horses had been so badly wounded that they could
scarcely move from the loss of blood; other noble creatures were trying
on three legs to drag themselves along, and others were struggling to
rise on their fore feet, when their hind legs had been shattered by
shot. After the battle the wounded men were brought in and the dead were
buried.”

“And what about the wounded horses?” I said; “were they left to die?”

“No, the army farriers went over the field with their pistols and shot
all that were ruined; some that had only slight wounds were brought back
and attended to, but the greater part of the noble, willing creatures
that went out that morning never came back! In our stables there was
only about one in four that returned.

“I never saw my dear master again. I believe he fell dead from the
saddle. I never loved any other master so well. I went into many other
engagements, but was only once wounded, and then not seriously; and when
the war was over I came back again to England, as sound and strong as
when I went out.”

I said, “I have heard people talk about war as if it was a very fine
thing.”

“Ah!” said he, “I should think they never saw it. No doubt it is very
fine when there is no enemy, when it is just exercise and parade and
sham fight. Yes, it is very fine then; but when thousands of good brave
men and horses are killed or crippled for life, it has a very different
look.”

“Do you know what they fought about?” said I.

“No,” he said, “that is more than a horse can understand, but the enemy
must have been awfully wicked people, if it was right to go all that way
over the sea on purpose to kill them.”




35 Jerry Barker


I never knew a better man than my new master. He was kind and good, and
as strong for the right as John Manly; and so good-tempered and merry
that very few people could pick a quarrel with him. He was very fond of
making little songs, and singing them to himself. One he was very fond
of was this:

     “Come, father and mother,
     And sister and brother,
     Come, all of you, turn to
     And help one another.”

And so they did; Harry was as clever at stable-work as a much older boy,
and always wanted to do what he could. Then Polly and Dolly used to come
in the morning to help with the cab--to brush and beat the cushions,
and rub the glass, while Jerry was giving us a cleaning in the yard, and
Harry was rubbing the harness. There used to be a great deal of laughing
and fun between them, and it put Captain and me in much better spirits
than if we had heard scolding and hard words. They were always early in
the morning, for Jerry would say:

     “If you in the morning
     Throw minutes away,
     You can't pick them up
     In the course of a day.
     You may hurry and scurry,
     And flurry and worry,
     You've lost them forever,
     Forever and aye.”

He could not bear any careless loitering and waste of time; and nothing
was so near making him angry as to find people, who were always late,
wanting a cab horse to be driven hard, to make up for their idleness.

One day two wild-looking young men came out of a tavern close by the
stand, and called Jerry.

“Here, cabby! look sharp, we are rather late; put on the steam, will
you, and take us to the Victoria in time for the one o'clock train? You
shall have a shilling extra.”

“I will take you at the regular pace, gentlemen; shillings don't pay for
putting on the steam like that.”

Larry's cab was standing next to ours; he flung open the door, and said,
“I'm your man, gentlemen! take my cab, my horse will get you there all
right;” and as he shut them in, with a wink toward Jerry, said, “It's
against his conscience to go beyond a jog-trot.” Then slashing his jaded
horse, he set off as hard as he could. Jerry patted me on the neck: “No,
Jack, a shilling would not pay for that sort of thing, would it, old
boy?”

Although Jerry was determinedly set against hard driving, to please
careless people, he always went a good fair pace, and was not against
putting on the steam, as he said, if only he knew why.

I well remember one morning, as we were on the stand waiting for a
fare, that a young man, carrying a heavy portmanteau, trod on a piece of
orange peel which lay on the pavement, and fell down with great force.

Jerry was the first to run and lift him up. He seemed much stunned, and
as they led him into a shop he walked as if he were in great pain. Jerry
of course came back to the stand, but in about ten minutes one of the
shopmen called him, so we drew up to the pavement.

“Can you take me to the South-Eastern Railway?” said the young man;
“this unlucky fall has made me late, I fear; but it is of great
importance that I should not lose the twelve o'clock train. I should be
most thankful if you could get me there in time, and will gladly pay you
an extra fare.”

“I'll do my very best,” said Jerry heartily, “if you think you are well
enough, sir,” for he looked dreadfully white and ill.

“I must go,” he said earnestly, “please to open the door, and let us
lose no time.”

The next minute Jerry was on the box; with a cheery chirrup to me, and a
twitch of the rein that I well understood.

“Now then, Jack, my boy,” said he, “spin along, we'll show them how we
can get over the ground, if we only know why.”

It is always difficult to drive fast in the city in the middle of the
day, when the streets are full of traffic, but we did what could be
done; and when a good driver and a good horse, who understand each
other, are of one mind, it is wonderful what they can do. I had a very
good mouth--that is I could be guided by the slightest touch of the
rein; and that is a great thing in London, among carriages, omnibuses,
carts, vans, trucks, cabs, and great wagons creeping along at a walking
pace; some going one way, some another, some going slowly, others
wanting to pass them; omnibuses stopping short every few minutes to take
up a passenger, obliging the horse that is coming behind to pull up too,
or to pass, and get before them; perhaps you try to pass, but just then
something else comes dashing in through the narrow opening, and you
have to keep in behind the omnibus again; presently you think you see a
chance, and manage to get to the front, going so near the wheels on each
side that half an inch nearer and they would scrape. Well, you get along
for a bit, but soon find yourself in a long train of carts and carriages
all obliged to go at a walk; perhaps you come to a regular block-up, and
have to stand still for minutes together, till something clears out into
a side street, or the policeman interferes; you have to be ready for
any chance--to dash forward if there be an opening, and be quick as a
rat-dog to see if there be room and if there be time, lest you get your
own wheels locked or smashed, or the shaft of some other vehicle run
into your chest or shoulder. All this is what you have to be ready for.
If you want to get through London fast in the middle of the day it wants
a deal of practice.

Jerry and I were used to it, and no one could beat us at getting through
when we were set upon it. I was quick and bold and could always trust
my driver; Jerry was quick and patient at the same time, and could trust
his horse, which was a great thing too. He very seldom used the whip; I
knew by his voice, and his click, click, when he wanted to get on fast,
and by the rein where I was to go; so there was no need for whipping;
but I must go back to my story.

The streets were very full that day, but we got on pretty well as far
as the bottom of Cheapside, where there was a block for three or four
minutes. The young man put his head out and said anxiously, “I think I
had better get out and walk; I shall never get there if this goes on.”

“I'll do all that can be done, sir,” said Jerry; “I think we shall be
in time. This block-up cannot last much longer, and your luggage is very
heavy for you to carry, sir.”

Just then the cart in front of us began to move on, and then we had a
good turn. In and out, in and out we went, as fast as horseflesh could
do it, and for a wonder had a good clear time on London Bridge, for
there was a whole train of cabs and carriages all going our way at a
quick trot, perhaps wanting to catch that very train. At any rate, we
whirled into the station with many more, just as the great clock pointed
to eight minutes to twelve o'clock.

“Thank God! we are in time,” said the young man, “and thank you, too, my
friend, and your good horse. You have saved me more than money can ever
pay for. Take this extra half-crown.”

“No, sir, no, thank you all the same; so glad we hit the time, sir;
but don't stay now, sir, the bell is ringing. Here, porter! take this
gentleman's luggage--Dover line twelve o'clock train--that's it,” and
without waiting for another word Jerry wheeled me round to make room for
other cabs that were dashing up at the last minute, and drew up on one
side till the crush was past.

“'So glad!' he said, 'so glad!' Poor young fellow! I wonder what it was
that made him so anxious!”

Jerry often talked to himself quite loud enough for me to hear when we
were not moving.

On Jerry's return to the rank there was a good deal of laughing and
chaffing at him for driving hard to the train for an extra fare, as they
said, all against his principles, and they wanted to know how much he
had pocketed.

“A good deal more than I generally get,” said he, nodding slyly; “what
he gave me will keep me in little comforts for several days.”

“Gammon!” said one.

“He's a humbug,” said another; “preaching to us and then doing the same
himself.”

“Look here, mates,” said Jerry; “the gentleman offered me half a crown
extra, but I didn't take it; 'twas quite pay enough for me to see how
glad he was to catch that train; and if Jack and I choose to have a
quick run now and then to please ourselves, that's our business and not
yours.”

“Well,” said Larry, “you'll never be a rich man.”

“Most likely not,” said Jerry; “but I don't know that I shall be the
less happy for that. I have heard the commandments read a great many
times and I never noticed that any of them said, 'Thou shalt be rich';
and there are a good many curious things said in the New Testament about
rich men that I think would make me feel rather queer if I was one of
them.”

“If you ever do get rich,” said Governor Gray, looking over his shoulder
across the top of his cab, “you'll deserve it, Jerry, and you won't find
a curse come with your wealth. As for you, Larry, you'll die poor; you
spend too much in whipcord.”

“Well,” said Larry, “what is a fellow to do if his horse won't go
without it?”

“You never take the trouble to see if he will go without it; your whip
is always going as if you had the St. Vitus' dance in your arm, and
if it does not wear you out it wears your horse out; you know you are
always changing your horses; and why? Because you never give them any
peace or encouragement.”

“Well, I have not had good luck,” said Larry, “that's where it is.”

“And you never will,” said the governor. “Good Luck is rather particular
who she rides with, and mostly prefers those who have got common sense
and a good heart; at least that is my experience.”

Governor Gray turned round again to his newspaper, and the other men
went to their cabs.




36 The Sunday Cab


One morning, as Jerry had just put me into the shafts and was fastening
the traces, a gentleman walked into the yard. “Your servant, sir,” said
Jerry.

“Good-morning, Mr. Barker,” said the gentleman. “I should be glad to
make some arrangements with you for taking Mrs. Briggs regularly to
church on Sunday mornings. We go to the New Church now, and that is
rather further than she can walk.”

“Thank you, sir,” said Jerry, “but I have only taken out a six-days'
license,* and therefore I could not take a fare on a Sunday; it would
not be legal.”


* A few years since the annual charge for a cab license was very much
reduced, and the difference between the six and seven days' cabs was
abolished.


“Oh!” said the other, “I did not know yours was a six-days' cab; but of
course it would be very easy to alter your license. I would see that you
did not lose by it; the fact is, Mrs. Briggs very much prefers you to
drive her.”

“I should be glad to oblige the lady, sir, but I had a seven-days'
license once, and the work was too hard for me, and too hard for my
horses. Year in and year out, not a day's rest, and never a Sunday with
my wife and children; and never able to go to a place of worship, which
I had always been used to do before I took to the driving box. So for
the last five years I have only taken a six-days' license, and I find it
better all the way round.”

“Well, of course,” replied Mr. Briggs, “it is very proper that every
person should have rest, and be able to go to church on Sundays, but I
should have thought you would not have minded such a short distance for
the horse, and only once a day; you would have all the afternoon and
evening for yourself, and we are very good customers, you know.”

“Yes, sir, that is true, and I am grateful for all favors, I am sure;
and anything that I could do to oblige you, or the lady, I should be
proud and happy to do; but I can't give up my Sundays, sir, indeed I
can't. I read that God made man, and he made horses and all the other
beasts, and as soon as He had made them He made a day of rest, and bade
that all should rest one day in seven; and I think, sir, He must have
known what was good for them, and I am sure it is good for me; I am
stronger and healthier altogether, now that I have a day of rest; the
horses are fresh too, and do not wear up nearly so fast. The six-day
drivers all tell me the same, and I have laid by more money in the
savings bank than ever I did before; and as for the wife and children,
sir, why, heart alive! they would not go back to the seven days for all
they could see.”

“Oh, very well,” said the gentleman. “Don't trouble yourself, Mr.
Barker, any further. I will inquire somewhere else,” and he walked away.

“Well,” says Jerry to me, “we can't help it, Jack, old boy; we must have
our Sundays.”

“Polly!” he shouted, “Polly! come here.”

She was there in a minute.

“What is it all about, Jerry?”

“Why, my dear, Mr. Briggs wants me to take Mrs. Briggs to church every
Sunday morning. I say I have only a six-days' license. He says, 'Get a
seven-days' license, and I'll make it worth your while;' and you know,
Polly, they are very good customers to us. Mrs. Briggs often goes out
shopping for hours, or making calls, and then she pays down fair and
honorable like a lady; there's no beating down or making three hours
into two hours and a half, as some folks do; and it is easy work for
the horses; not like tearing along to catch trains for people that are
always a quarter of an hour too late; and if I don't oblige her in this
matter it is very likely we shall lose them altogether. What do you say,
little woman?”

“I say, Jerry,” says she, speaking very slowly, “I say, if Mrs. Briggs
would give you a sovereign every Sunday morning, I would not have you a
seven-days' cabman again. We have known what it was to have no Sundays,
and now we know what it is to call them our own. Thank God, you earn
enough to keep us, though it is sometimes close work to pay for all the
oats and hay, the license, and the rent besides; but Harry will soon be
earning something, and I would rather struggle on harder than we do than
go back to those horrid times when you hardly had a minute to look at
your own children, and we never could go to a place of worship together,
or have a happy, quiet day. God forbid that we should ever turn back to
those times; that's what I say, Jerry.”

“And that is just what I told Mr. Briggs, my dear,” said Jerry, “and
what I mean to stick to. So don't go and fret yourself, Polly” (for she
had begun to cry); “I would not go back to the old times if I earned
twice as much, so that is settled, little woman. Now, cheer up, and I'll
be off to the stand.”

Three weeks had passed away after this conversation, and no order had
come from Mrs. Briggs; so there was nothing but taking jobs from the
stand. Jerry took it to heart a good deal, for of course the work was
harder for horse and man. But Polly would always cheer him up, and say,
“Never mind, father, never, mind.

     “'Do your best,
     And leave the rest,
     'Twill all come right
     Some day or night.'”

It soon became known that Jerry had lost his best customer, and for what
reason. Most of the men said he was a fool, but two or three took his
part.

“If workingmen don't stick to their Sunday,” said Truman, “they'll soon
have none left; it is every man's right and every beast's right. By
God's law we have a day of rest, and by the law of England we have a day
of rest; and I say we ought to hold to the rights these laws give us and
keep them for our children.”

“All very well for you religious chaps to talk so,” said Larry; “but
I'll turn a shilling when I can. I don't believe in religion, for I
don't see that your religious people are any better than the rest.”

“If they are not better,” put in Jerry, “it is because they are not
religious. You might as well say that our country's laws are not good
because some people break them. If a man gives way to his temper, and
speaks evil of his neighbor, and does not pay his debts, he is not
religious, I don't care how much he goes to church. If some men are
shams and humbugs, that does not make religion untrue. Real religion is
the best and truest thing in the world, and the only thing that can make
a man really happy or make the world we live in any better.”

“If religion was good for anything,” said Jones, “it would prevent your
religious people from making us work on Sundays, as you know many of
them do, and that's why I say religion is nothing but a sham; why, if it
was not for the church and chapel-goers it would be hardly worth while
our coming out on a Sunday. But they have their privileges, as they call
them, and I go without. I shall expect them to answer for my soul, if I
can't get a chance of saving it.”

Several of the men applauded this, till Jerry said:

“That may sound well enough, but it won't do; every man must look
after his own soul; you can't lay it down at another man's door like a
foundling and expect him to take care of it; and don't you see, if you
are always sitting on your box waiting for a fare, they will say, 'If we
don't take him some one else will, and he does not look for any Sunday.'
Of course, they don't go to the bottom of it, or they would see if they
never came for a cab it would be no use your standing there; but
people don't always like to go to the bottom of things; it may not be
convenient to do it; but if you Sunday drivers would all strike for a
day of rest the thing would be done.”

“And what would all the good people do if they could not get to their
favorite preachers?” said Larry.

“'Tis not for me to lay down plans for other people,” said Jerry, “but
if they can't walk so far they can go to what is nearer; and if it
should rain they can put on their mackintoshes as they do on a week-day.
If a thing is right it can be done, and if it is wrong it can be done
without; and a good man will find a way. And that is as true for us
cabmen as it is for the church-goers.”




37 The Golden Rule


Two or three weeks after this, as we came into the yard rather late in
the evening, Polly came running across the road with the lantern (she
always brought it to him if it was not very wet).

“It has all come right, Jerry; Mrs. Briggs sent her servant this
afternoon to ask you to take her out to-morrow at eleven o'clock. I
said, 'Yes, I thought so, but we supposed she employed some one else
now.'”

“'Well,' said he, 'the real fact is, master was put out because Mr.
Barker refused to come on Sundays, and he has been trying other cabs,
but there's something wrong with them all; some drive too fast, and some
too slow, and the mistress says there is not one of them so nice and
clean as yours, and nothing will suit her but Mr. Barker's cab again.'”

Polly was almost out of breath, and Jerry broke out into a merry laugh.

“''Twill all come right some day or night': you were right, my dear; you
generally are. Run in and get the supper, and I'll have Jack's harness
off and make him snug and happy in no time.”

After this Mrs. Briggs wanted Jerry's cab quite as often as before,
never, however, on a Sunday; but there came a day when we had Sunday
work, and this was how it happened. We had all come home on the Saturday
night very tired, and very glad to think that the next day would be all
rest, but so it was not to be.

On Sunday morning Jerry was cleaning me in the yard, when Polly stepped
up to him, looking very full of something.

“What is it?” said Jerry.

“Well, my dear,” she said, “poor Dinah Brown has just had a letter
brought to say that her mother is dangerously ill, and that she must
go directly if she wishes to see her alive. The place is more than ten
miles away from here, out in the country, and she says if she takes the
train she should still have four miles to walk; and so weak as she is,
and the baby only four weeks old, of course that would be impossible;
and she wants to know if you would take her in your cab, and she
promises to pay you faithfully, as she can get the money.”

“Tut, tut! we'll see about that. It was not the money I was thinking
about, but of losing our Sunday; the horses are tired, and I am tired,
too--that's where it pinches.”

“It pinches all round, for that matter,” said Polly, “for it's only
half Sunday without you, but you know we should do to other people as
we should like they should do to us; and I know very well what I should
like if my mother was dying; and Jerry, dear, I am sure it won't break
the Sabbath; for if pulling a poor beast or donkey out of a pit would
not spoil it, I am quite sure taking poor Dinah would not do it.”

“Why, Polly, you are as good as the minister, and so, as I've had my
Sunday-morning sermon early to-day, you may go and tell Dinah that I'll
be ready for her as the clock strikes ten; but stop--just step round to
butcher Braydon's with my compliments, and ask him if he would lend me
his light trap; I know he never uses it on the Sunday, and it would make
a wonderful difference to the horse.”

Away she went, and soon returned, saying that he could have the trap and
welcome.

“All right,” said he; “now put me up a bit of bread and cheese, and I'll
be back in the afternoon as soon as I can.”

“And I'll have the meat pie ready for an early tea instead of for
dinner,” said Polly; and away she went, while he made his preparations
to the tune of “Polly's the woman and no mistake”, of which tune he was
very fond.

I was selected for the journey, and at ten o'clock we started, in a
light, high-wheeled gig, which ran so easily that after the four-wheeled
cab it seemed like nothing.

It was a fine May day, and as soon as we were out of the town, the sweet
air, the smell of the fresh grass, and the soft country roads were as
pleasant as they used to be in the old times, and I soon began to feel
quite fresh.

Dinah's family lived in a small farmhouse, up a green lane, close by a
meadow with some fine shady trees; there were two cows feeding in it.
A young man asked Jerry to bring his trap into the meadow, and he would
tie me up in the cowshed; he wished he had a better stable to offer.

“If your cows would not be offended,” said Jerry, “there is nothing my
horse would like so well as to have an hour or two in your beautiful
meadow; he's quiet, and it would be a rare treat for him.”

“Do, and welcome,” said the young man; “the best we have is at your
service for your kindness to my sister; we shall be having some dinner
in an hour, and I hope you'll come in, though with mother so ill we are
all out of sorts in the house.”

Jerry thanked him kindly, but said as he had some dinner with him there
was nothing he should like so well as walking about in the meadow.

When my harness was taken off I did not know what I should do
first--whether to eat the grass, or roll over on my back, or lie down
and rest, or have a gallop across the meadow out of sheer spirits at
being free; and I did all by turns. Jerry seemed to be quite as happy
as I was; he sat down by a bank under a shady tree, and listened to the
birds, then he sang himself, and read out of the little brown book he is
so fond of, then wandered round the meadow, and down by a little brook,
where he picked the flowers and the hawthorn, and tied them up with
long sprays of ivy; then he gave me a good feed of the oats which he had
brought with him; but the time seemed all too short--I had not been in a
field since I left poor Ginger at Earlshall.

We came home gently, and Jerry's first words were, as we came into the
yard, “Well, Polly, I have not lost my Sunday after all, for the birds
were singing hymns in every bush, and I joined in the service; and as
for Jack, he was like a young colt.”

When he handed Dolly the flowers she jumped about for joy.




38 Dolly and a Real Gentleman


Winter came in early, with a great deal of cold and wet. There was snow,
or sleet, or rain almost every day for weeks, changing only for keen
driving winds or sharp frosts. The horses all felt it very much. When
it is a dry cold a couple of good thick rugs will keep the warmth in us;
but when it is soaking rain they soon get wet through and are no good.
Some of the drivers had a waterproof cover to throw over, which was a
fine thing; but some of the men were so poor that they could not protect
either themselves or their horses, and many of them suffered very much
that winter. When we horses had worked half the day we went to our dry
stables, and could rest, while they had to sit on their boxes, sometimes
staying out as late as one or two o'clock in the morning if they had a
party to wait for.

When the streets were slippery with frost or snow that was the worst of
all for us horses. One mile of such traveling, with a weight to draw
and no firm footing, would take more out of us than four on a good
road; every nerve and muscle of our bodies is on the strain to keep our
balance; and, added to this, the fear of falling is more exhausting than
anything else. If the roads are very bad indeed our shoes are roughed,
but that makes us feel nervous at first.

When the weather was very bad many of the men would go and sit in the
tavern close by, and get some one to watch for them; but they often
lost a fare in that way, and could not, as Jerry said, be there without
spending money. He never went to the Rising Sun; there was a coffee-shop
near, where he now and then went, or he bought of an old man, who came
to our rank with tins of hot coffee and pies. It was his opinion that
spirits and beer made a man colder afterward, and that dry clothes, good
food, cheerfulness, and a comfortable wife at home, were the best things
to keep a cabman warm. Polly always supplied him with something to eat
when he could not get home, and sometimes he would see little Dolly
peeping from the corner of the street, to make sure if “father” was on
the stand. If she saw him she would run off at full speed and soon come
back with something in a tin or basket, some hot soup or pudding Polly
had ready. It was wonderful how such a little thing could get safely
across the street, often thronged with horses and carriages; but she was
a brave little maid, and felt it quite an honor to bring “father's first
course”, as he used to call it. She was a general favorite on the stand,
and there was not a man who would not have seen her safely across the
street, if Jerry had not been able to do it.

One cold windy day Dolly had brought Jerry a basin of something hot,
and was standing by him while he ate it. He had scarcely begun when
a gentleman, walking toward us very fast, held up his umbrella. Jerry
touched his hat in return, gave the basin to Dolly, and was taking off
my cloth, when the gentleman, hastening up, cried out, “No, no, finish
your soup, my friend; I have not much time to spare, but I can wait
till you have done, and set your little girl safe on the pavement.” So
saying, he seated himself in the cab. Jerry thanked him kindly, and came
back to Dolly.

“There, Dolly, that's a gentleman; that's a real gentleman, Dolly; he
has got time and thought for the comfort of a poor cabman and a little
girl.”

Jerry finished his soup, set the child across, and then took his orders
to drive to Clapham Rise. Several times after that the same gentleman
took our cab. I think he was very fond of dogs and horses, for whenever
we took him to his own door two or three dogs would come bounding out
to meet him. Sometimes he came round and patted me, saying in his quiet,
pleasant way, “This horse has got a good master, and he deserves it.”
 It was a very rare thing for any one to notice the horse that had been
working for him. I have known ladies to do it now and then, and this
gentleman, and one or two others have given me a pat and a kind word;
but ninety-nine persons out of a hundred would as soon think of patting
the steam engine that drew the train.

The gentleman was not young, and there was a forward stoop in his
shoulders as if he was always going at something. His lips were thin and
close shut, though they had a very pleasant smile; his eye was keen, and
there was something in his jaw and the motion of his head that made one
think he was very determined in anything he set about. His voice was
pleasant and kind; any horse would trust that voice, though it was just
as decided as everything else about him.

One day he and another gentleman took our cab; they stopped at a shop
in R---- Street, and while his friend went in he stood at the door. A
little ahead of us on the other side of the street a cart with two very
fine horses was standing before some wine vaults; the carter was not
with them, and I cannot tell how long they had been standing, but they
seemed to think they had waited long enough, and began to move off.
Before they had gone many paces the carter came running out and caught
them. He seemed furious at their having moved, and with whip and rein
punished them brutally, even beating them about the head. Our gentleman
saw it all, and stepping quickly across the street, said in a decided
voice:

“If you don't stop that directly, I'll have you arrested for leaving
your horses, and for brutal conduct.”

The man, who had clearly been drinking, poured forth some abusive
language, but he left off knocking the horses about, and taking the
reins, got into his cart; meantime our friend had quietly taken a
note-book from his pocket, and looking at the name and address painted
on the cart, he wrote something down.

“What do you want with that?” growled the carter, as he cracked his whip
and was moving on. A nod and a grim smile was the only answer he got.

On returning to the cab our friend was joined by his companion, who said
laughingly, “I should have thought, Wright, you had enough business of
your own to look after, without troubling yourself about other people's
horses and servants.”

Our friend stood still for a moment, and throwing his head a little
back, “Do you know why this world is as bad as it is?”

“No,” said the other.

“Then I'll tell you. It is because people think only about their own
business, and won't trouble themselves to stand up for the oppressed,
nor bring the wrongdoer to light. I never see a wicked thing like this
without doing what I can, and many a master has thanked me for letting
him know how his horses have been used.”

“I wish there were more gentlemen like you, sir,” said Jerry, “for they
are wanted badly enough in this city.”

After this we continued our journey, and as they got out of the cab our
friend was saying, “My doctrine is this, that if we see cruelty or
wrong that we have the power to stop, and do nothing, we make ourselves
sharers in the guilt.”




39 Seedy Sam


I should say that for a cab-horse I was very well off indeed; my driver
was my owner, and it was his interest to treat me well and not overwork
me, even had he not been so good a man as he was; but there were a great
many horses which belonged to the large cab-owners, who let them out to
their drivers for so much money a day. As the horses did not belong to
these men the only thing they thought of was how to get their money out
of them, first, to pay the master, and then to provide for their own
living; and a dreadful time some of these horses had of it. Of course,
I understood but little, but it was often talked over on the stand,
and the governor, who was a kind-hearted man and fond of horses, would
sometimes speak up if one came in very much jaded or ill-used.

One day a shabby, miserable-looking driver, who went by the name of
“Seedy Sam”, brought in his horse looking dreadfully beat, and the
governor said:

“You and your horse look more fit for the police station than for this
rank.”

The man flung his tattered rug over the horse, turned full round upon
the Governor and said in a voice that sounded almost desperate:

“If the police have any business with the matter it ought to be with the
masters who charge us so much, or with the fares that are fixed so low.
If a man has to pay eighteen shillings a day for the use of a cab and
two horses, as many of us have to do in the season, and must make that
up before we earn a penny for ourselves I say 'tis more than hard work;
nine shillings a day to get out of each horse before you begin to get
your own living. You know that's true, and if the horses don't work we
must starve, and I and my children have known what that is before now.
I've six of 'em, and only one earns anything; I am on the stand fourteen
or sixteen hours a day, and I haven't had a Sunday these ten or twelve
weeks; you know Skinner never gives a day if he can help it, and if I
don't work hard, tell me who does! I want a warm coat and a mackintosh,
but with so many to feed how can a man get it? I had to pledge my clock
a week ago to pay Skinner, and I shall never see it again.”

Some of the other drivers stood round nodding their heads and saying he
was right. The man went on:

“You that have your own horses and cabs, or drive for good masters, have
a chance of getting on and a chance of doing right; I haven't. We can't
charge more than sixpence a mile after the first, within the four-mile
radius. This very morning I had to go a clear six miles and only took
three shillings. I could not get a return fare, and had to come all the
way back; there's twelve miles for the horse and three shillings for me.
After that I had a three-mile fare, and there were bags and boxes enough
to have brought in a good many twopences if they had been put outside;
but you know how people do; all that could be piled up inside on the
front seat were put in and three heavy boxes went on the top. That
was sixpence, and the fare one and sixpence; then I got a return for a
shilling. Now that makes eighteen miles for the horse and six shillings
for me; there's three shillings still for that horse to earn and nine
shillings for the afternoon horse before I touch a penny. Of course, it
is not always so bad as that, but you know it often is, and I say 'tis
a mockery to tell a man that he must not overwork his horse, for when a
beast is downright tired there's nothing but the whip that will keep
his legs a-going; you can't help yourself--you must put your wife and
children before the horse; the masters must look to that, we can't. I
don't ill-use my horse for the sake of it; none of you can say I do.
There's wrong lays somewhere--never a day's rest, never a quiet hour
with the wife and children. I often feel like an old man, though I'm
only forty-five. You know how quick some of the gentry are to suspect us
of cheating and overcharging; why, they stand with their purses in
their hands counting it over to a penny and looking at us as if we were
pickpockets. I wish some of 'em had got to sit on my box sixteen hours
a day and get a living out of it and eighteen shillings beside, and that
in all weathers; they would not be so uncommon particular never to give
us a sixpence over or to cram all the luggage inside. Of course, some of
'em tip us pretty handsome now and then, or else we could not live; but
you can't depend upon that.”

The men who stood round much approved this speech, and one of them said,
“It is desperate hard, and if a man sometimes does what is wrong it is
no wonder, and if he gets a dram too much who's to blow him up?”

Jerry had taken no part in this conversation, but I never saw his face
look so sad before. The governor had stood with both his hands in his
pockets; now he took his handkerchief out of his hat and wiped his
forehead.

“You've beaten me, Sam,” he said, “for it's all true, and I won't cast
it up to you any more about the police; it was the look in that horse's
eye that came over me. It is hard lines for man and it is hard lines for
beast, and who's to mend it I don't know: but anyway you might tell
the poor beast that you were sorry to take it out of him in that way.
Sometimes a kind word is all we can give 'em, poor brutes, and 'tis
wonderful what they do understand.”

A few mornings after this talk a new man came on the stand with Sam's
cab.

“Halloo!” said one, “what's up with Seedy Sam?”

“He's ill in bed,” said the man; “he was taken last night in the yard,
and could scarcely crawl home. His wife sent a boy this morning to
say his father was in a high fever and could not get out, so I'm here
instead.”

The next morning the same man came again.

“How is Sam?” inquired the governor.

“He's gone,” said the man.

“What, gone? You don't mean to say he's dead?”

“Just snuffed out,” said the other; “he died at four o'clock this
morning; all yesterday he was raving--raving about Skinner, and having
no Sundays. 'I never had a Sunday's rest,' these were his last words.”

No one spoke for a while, and then the governor said, “I'll tell you
what, mates, this is a warning for us.”




40 Poor Ginger


One day, while our cab and many others were waiting outside one of the
parks where music was playing, a shabby old cab drove up beside ours.
The horse was an old worn-out chestnut, with an ill-kept coat, and
bones that showed plainly through it, the knees knuckled over, and the
fore-legs were very unsteady. I had been eating some hay, and the wind
rolled a little lock of it that way, and the poor creature put out her
long thin neck and picked it up, and then turned and looked about for
more. There was a hopeless look in the dull eye that I could not help
noticing, and then, as I was thinking where I had seen that horse
before, she looked full at me and said, “Black Beauty, is that you?”

It was Ginger! but how changed! The beautifully arched and glossy neck
was now straight, and lank, and fallen in; the clean straight legs and
delicate fetlocks were swelled; the joints were grown out of shape with
hard work; the face, that was once so full of spirit and life, was now
full of suffering, and I could tell by the heaving of her sides, and her
frequent cough, how bad her breath was.

Our drivers were standing together a little way off, so I sidled up to
her a step or two, that we might have a little quiet talk. It was a sad
tale that she had to tell.

After a twelvemonth's run off at Earlshall, she was considered to be fit
for work again, and was sold to a gentleman. For a little while she
got on very well, but after a longer gallop than usual the old strain
returned, and after being rested and doctored she was again sold. In
this way she changed hands several times, but always getting lower down.

“And so at last,” said she, “I was bought by a man who keeps a number of
cabs and horses, and lets them out. You look well off, and I am glad of
it, but I could not tell you what my life has been. When they found out
my weakness they said I was not worth what they gave for me, and that I
must go into one of the low cabs, and just be used up; that is what
they are doing, whipping and working with never one thought of what I
suffer--they paid for me, and must get it out of me, they say. The man
who hires me now pays a deal of money to the owner every day, and so he
has to get it out of me too; and so it's all the week round and round,
with never a Sunday rest.”

I said, “You used to stand up for yourself if you were ill-used.”

“Ah!” she said, “I did once, but it's no use; men are strongest, and if
they are cruel and have no feeling, there is nothing that we can do, but
just bear it--bear it on and on to the end. I wish the end was come,
I wish I was dead. I have seen dead horses, and I am sure they do not
suffer pain; I wish I may drop down dead at my work, and not be sent off
to the knackers.”

I was very much troubled, and I put my nose up to hers, but I could say
nothing to comfort her. I think she was pleased to see me, for she said,
“You are the only friend I ever had.”

Just then her driver came up, and with a tug at her mouth backed her out
of the line and drove off, leaving me very sad indeed.

A short time after this a cart with a dead horse in it passed our
cab-stand. The head hung out of the cart-tail, the lifeless tongue was
slowly dropping with blood; and the sunken eyes! but I can't speak of
them, the sight was too dreadful. It was a chestnut horse with a long,
thin neck. I saw a white streak down the forehead. I believe it was
Ginger; I hoped it was, for then her troubles would be over. Oh! if men
were more merciful they would shoot us before we came to such misery.




41 The Butcher


I saw a great deal of trouble among the horses in London, and much of
it might have been prevented by a little common sense. We horses do not
mind hard work if we are treated reasonably, and I am sure there are
many driven by quite poor men who have a happier life than I had when I
used to go in the Countess of W----'s carriage, with my silver-mounted
harness and high feeding.

It often went to my heart to see how the little ponies were used,
straining along with heavy loads or staggering under heavy blows from
some low, cruel boy. Once I saw a little gray pony with a thick mane
and a pretty head, and so much like Merrylegs that if I had not been in
harness I should have neighed to him. He was doing his best to pull a
heavy cart, while a strong rough boy was cutting him under the belly
with his whip and chucking cruelly at his little mouth. Could it be
Merrylegs? It was just like him; but then Mr. Blomefield was never to
sell him, and I think he would not do it; but this might have been quite
as good a little fellow, and had as happy a place when he was young.

I often noticed the great speed at which butchers' horses were made to
go, though I did not know why it was so till one day when we had to wait
some time in St. John's Wood. There was a butcher's shop next door, and
as we were standing a butcher's cart came dashing up at a great pace.
The horse was hot and much exhausted; he hung his head down, while his
heaving sides and trembling legs showed how hard he had been driven. The
lad jumped out of the cart and was getting the basket when the master
came out of the shop much displeased. After looking at the horse he
turned angrily to the lad.

“How many times shall I tell you not to drive in this way? You ruined
the last horse and broke his wind, and you are going to ruin this in the
same way. If you were not my own son I would dismiss you on the spot;
it is a disgrace to have a horse brought to the shop in a condition like
that; you are liable to be taken up by the police for such driving, and
if you are you need not look to me for bail, for I have spoken to you
till I'm tired; you must look out for yourself.”

During this speech the boy had stood by, sullen and dogged, but when his
father ceased he broke out angrily. It wasn't his fault, and he wouldn't
take the blame; he was only going by orders all the time.

“You always say, 'Now be quick; now look sharp!' and when I go to the
houses one wants a leg of mutton for an early dinner and I must be back
with it in a quarter of an hour; another cook has forgotten to order
the beef; I must go and fetch it and be back in no time, or the
mistress will scold; and the housekeeper says they have company coming
unexpectedly and must have some chops sent up directly; and the lady at
No. 4, in the Crescent, never orders her dinner till the meat comes
in for lunch, and it's nothing but hurry, hurry, all the time. If the
gentry would think of what they want, and order their meat the day
before, there need not be this blow up!”

“I wish to goodness they would,” said the butcher; “'twould save me a
wonderful deal of harass, and I could suit my customers much better if
I knew beforehand--But there! what's the use of talking--who ever thinks
of a butcher's convenience or a butcher's horse! Now, then, take him
in and look to him well; mind, he does not go out again to-day, and if
anything else is wanted you must carry it yourself in the basket.” With
that he went in, and the horse was led away.

But all boys are not cruel. I have seen some as fond of their pony or
donkey as if it had been a favorite dog, and the little creatures have
worked away as cheerfully and willingly for their young drivers as I
work for Jerry. It may be hard work sometimes, but a friend's hand and
voice make it easy.

There was a young coster-boy who came up our street with greens and
potatoes; he had an old pony, not very handsome, but the cheerfullest
and pluckiest little thing I ever saw, and to see how fond those two
were of each other was a treat. The pony followed his master like a dog,
and when he got into his cart would trot off without a whip or a word,
and rattle down the street as merrily as if he had come out of the
queen's stables. Jerry liked the boy, and called him “Prince Charlie”,
for he said he would make a king of drivers some day.

There was an old man, too, who used to come up our street with a little
coal cart; he wore a coal-heaver's hat, and looked rough and black. He
and his old horse used to plod together along the street, like two good
partners who understood each other; the horse would stop of his own
accord at the doors where they took coal of him; he used to keep one ear
bent toward his master. The old man's cry could be heard up the street
long before he came near. I never knew what he said, but the children
called him “Old Ba-a-ar Hoo”, for it sounded like that. Polly took her
coal of him, and was very friendly, and Jerry said it was a comfort to
think how happy an old horse might be in a poor place.




42 The Election


As we came into the yard one afternoon Polly came out. “Jerry! I've had
Mr. B---- here asking about your vote, and he wants to hire your cab for
the election; he will call for an answer.”

“Well, Polly, you may say that my cab will be otherwise engaged. I
should not like to have it pasted over with their great bills, and as
to making Jack and Captain race about to the public-houses to bring up
half-drunken voters, why, I think 'twould be an insult to the horses.
No, I shan't do it.”

“I suppose you'll vote for the gentleman? He said he was of your
politics.”

“So he is in some things, but I shall not vote for him, Polly; you know
what his trade is?”

“Yes.”

“Well, a man who gets rich by that trade may be all very well in some
ways, but he is blind as to what workingmen want; I could not in my
conscience send him up to make the laws. I dare say they'll be angry,
but every man must do what he thinks to be the best for his country.”

On the morning before the election, Jerry was putting me into the
shafts, when Dolly came into the yard sobbing and crying, with her
little blue frock and white pinafore spattered all over with mud.

“Why, Dolly, what is the matter?”

“Those naughty boys,” she sobbed, “have thrown the dirt all over me, and
called me a little raga--raga--”

“They called her a little 'blue' ragamuffin, father,” said Harry, who
ran in looking very angry; “but I have given it to them; they won't
insult my sister again. I have given them a thrashing they will
remember; a set of cowardly, rascally 'orange' blackguards.”

Jerry kissed the child and said, “Run in to mother, my pet, and tell her
I think you had better stay at home to-day and help her.”

Then turning gravely to Harry:

“My boy, I hope you will always defend your sister, and give anybody who
insults her a good thrashing--that is as it should be; but mind, I won't
have any election blackguarding on my premises. There are as many
'blue' blackguards as there are 'orange', and as many white as there are
purple, or any other color, and I won't have any of my family mixed up
with it. Even women and children are ready to quarrel for the sake of a
color, and not one in ten of them knows what it is about.”

“Why, father, I thought blue was for Liberty.”

“My boy, Liberty does not come from colors, they only show party, and
all the liberty you can get out of them is, liberty to get drunk at
other people's expense, liberty to ride to the poll in a dirty old cab,
liberty to abuse any one that does not wear your color, and to shout
yourself hoarse at what you only half-understand--that's your liberty!”

“Oh, father, you are laughing.”

“No, Harry, I am serious, and I am ashamed to see how men go on who
ought to know better. An election is a very serious thing; at least it
ought to be, and every man ought to vote according to his conscience,
and let his neighbor do the same.”




43 A Friend in Need


The election day came at last; there was no lack of work for Jerry and
me. First came a stout puffy gentleman with a carpet bag; he wanted to
go to the Bishopsgate station; then we were called by a party who wished
to be taken to the Regent's Park; and next we were wanted in a side
street where a timid, anxious old lady was waiting to be taken to the
bank; there we had to stop to take her back again, and just as we had
set her down a red-faced gentleman, with a handful of papers, came
running up out of breath, and before Jerry could get down he had opened
the door, popped himself in, and called out, “Bow Street Police Station,
quick!” so off we went with him, and when after another turn or two
we came back, there was no other cab on the stand. Jerry put on my
nose-bag, for as he said, “We must eat when we can on such days as
these; so munch away, Jack, and make the best of your time, old boy.”

I found I had a good feed of crushed oats wetted up with a little bran;
this would be a treat any day, but very refreshing then. Jerry was so
thoughtful and kind--what horse would not do his best for such a master?
Then he took out one of Polly's meat pies, and standing near me, he
began to eat it. The streets were very full, and the cabs, with the
candidates' colors on them, were dashing about through the crowd as if
life and limb were of no consequence; we saw two people knocked down
that day, and one was a woman. The horses were having a bad time of it,
poor things! but the voters inside thought nothing of that; many of them
were half-drunk, hurrahing out of the cab windows if their own party
came by. It was the first election I had seen, and I don't want to be in
another, though I have heard things are better now.

Jerry and I had not eaten many mouthfuls before a poor young woman,
carrying a heavy child, came along the street. She was looking this way
and that way, and seemed quite bewildered. Presently she made her way up
to Jerry and asked if he could tell her the way to St. Thomas' Hospital,
and how far it was to get there. She had come from the country that
morning, she said, in a market cart; she did not know about the
election, and was quite a stranger in London. She had got an order for
the hospital for her little boy. The child was crying with a feeble,
pining cry.

“Poor little fellow!” she said, “he suffers a deal of pain; he is four
years old and can't walk any more than a baby; but the doctor said if I
could get him into the hospital he might get well; pray, sir, how far is
it; and which way is it?”

“Why, missis,” said Jerry, “you can't get there walking through crowds
like this! why, it is three miles away, and that child is heavy.”

“Yes, bless him, he is; but I am strong, thank God, and if I knew the
way I think I should get on somehow; please tell me the way.”

“You can't do it,” said Jerry, “you might be knocked down and the child
be run over. Now look here, just get into this cab, and I'll drive you
safe to the hospital. Don't you see the rain is coming on?”

“No, sir, no; I can't do that, thank you, I have only just money enough
to get back with. Please tell me the way.”

“Look you here, missis,” said Jerry, “I've got a wife and dear children
at home, and I know a father's feelings; now get you into that cab, and
I'll take you there for nothing. I'd be ashamed of myself to let a woman
and a sick child run a risk like that.”

“Heaven bless you!” said the woman, and burst into tears.

“There, there, cheer up, my dear, I'll soon take you there; come, let me
put you inside.”

As Jerry went to open the door two men, with colors in their hats and
buttonholes, ran up calling out, “Cab!”

“Engaged,” cried Jerry; but one of the men, pushing past the woman,
sprang into the cab, followed by the other. Jerry looked as stern as a
policeman. “This cab is already engaged, gentlemen, by that lady.”

“Lady!” said one of them; “oh! she can wait; our business is very
important, besides we were in first, it is our right, and we shall stay
in.”

A droll smile came over Jerry's face as he shut the door upon them. “All
right, gentlemen, pray stay in as long as it suits you; I can wait while
you rest yourselves.” And turning his back upon them he walked up to the
young woman, who was standing near me. “They'll soon be gone,” he said,
laughing; “don't trouble yourself, my dear.”

And they soon were gone, for when they understood Jerry's dodge they got
out, calling him all sorts of bad names and blustering about his number
and getting a summons. After this little stoppage we were soon on our
way to the hospital, going as much as possible through by-streets. Jerry
rung the great bell and helped the young woman out.

“Thank you a thousand times,” she said; “I could never have got here
alone.”

“You're kindly welcome, and I hope the dear child will soon be better.”

He watched her go in at the door, and gently he said to himself,
“Inasmuch as ye have done it to one of the least of these.” Then he
patted my neck, which was always his way when anything pleased him.

The rain was now coming down fast, and just as we were leaving the
hospital the door opened again, and the porter called out, “Cab!” We
stopped, and a lady came down the steps. Jerry seemed to know her at
once; she put back her veil and said, “Barker! Jeremiah Barker, is it
you? I am very glad to find you here; you are just the friend I want,
for it is very difficult to get a cab in this part of London to-day.”

“I shall be proud to serve you, ma'am; I am right glad I happened to be
here. Where may I take you to, ma'am?”

“To the Paddington Station, and then if we are in good time, as I think
we shall be, you shall tell me all about Mary and the children.”

We got to the station in good time, and being under shelter the lady
stood a good while talking to Jerry. I found she had been Polly's
mistress, and after many inquiries about her she said:

“How do you find the cab work suit you in winter? I know Mary was rather
anxious about you last year.”

“Yes, ma'am, she was; I had a bad cough that followed me up quite into
the warm weather, and when I am kept out late she does worry herself a
good deal. You see, ma'am, it is all hours and all weathers, and that
does try a man's constitution; but I am getting on pretty well, and I
should feel quite lost if I had not horses to look after. I was brought
up to it, and I am afraid I should not do so well at anything else.”

“Well, Barker,” she said, “it would be a great pity that you should
seriously risk your health in this work, not only for your own but for
Mary's and the children's sake; there are many places where good drivers
or good grooms are wanted, and if ever you think you ought to give up
this cab work let me know.”

Then sending some kind messages to Mary she put something into his hand,
saying, “There is five shillings each for the two children; Mary will
know how to spend it.”

Jerry thanked her and seemed much pleased, and turning out of the
station we at last reached home, and I, at least, was tired.




44 Old Captain and His Successor


Captain and I were great friends. He was a noble old fellow, and he was
very good company. I never thought that he would have to leave his home
and go down the hill; but his turn came, and this was how it happened. I
was not there, but I heard all about it.

He and Jerry had taken a party to the great railway station over London
Bridge, and were coming back, somewhere between the bridge and the
monument, when Jerry saw a brewer's empty dray coming along, drawn by
two powerful horses. The drayman was lashing his horses with his heavy
whip; the dray was light, and they started off at a furious rate; the
man had no control over them, and the street was full of traffic.

One young girl was knocked down and run over, and the next moment they
dashed up against our cab; both the wheels were torn off and the cab was
thrown over. Captain was dragged down, the shafts splintered, and one
of them ran into his side. Jerry, too, was thrown, but was only bruised;
nobody could tell how he escaped; he always said 'twas a miracle. When
poor Captain was got up he was found to be very much cut and knocked
about. Jerry led him home gently, and a sad sight it was to see the
blood soaking into his white coat and dropping from his side and
shoulder. The drayman was proved to be very drunk, and was fined, and
the brewer had to pay damages to our master; but there was no one to pay
damages to poor Captain.

The farrier and Jerry did the best they could to ease his pain and make
him comfortable. The fly had to be mended, and for several days I did
not go out, and Jerry earned nothing. The first time we went to the
stand after the accident the governor came up to hear how Captain was.

“He'll never get over it,” said Jerry, “at least not for my work, so the
farrier said this morning. He says he may do for carting, and that sort
of work. It has put me out very much. Carting, indeed! I've seen what
horses come to at that work round London. I only wish all the drunkards
could be put in a lunatic asylum instead of being allowed to run foul of
sober people. If they would break their own bones, and smash their own
carts, and lame their own horses, that would be their own affair, and
we might let them alone, but it seems to me that the innocent
always suffer; and then they talk about compensation! You can't make
compensation; there's all the trouble, and vexation, and loss of time,
besides losing a good horse that's like an old friend--it's nonsense
talking of compensation! If there's one devil that I should like to see
in the bottomless pit more than another, it's the drink devil.”

“I say, Jerry,” said the governor, “you are treading pretty hard on my
toes, you know; I'm not so good as you are, more shame to me; I wish I
was.”

“Well,” said Jerry, “why don't you cut with it, governor? You are too
good a man to be the slave of such a thing.”

“I'm a great fool, Jerry, but I tried once for two days, and I thought I
should have died; how did you do?”

“I had hard work at it for several weeks; you see I never did get drunk,
but I found that I was not my own master, and that when the craving came
on it was hard work to say 'no'. I saw that one of us must knock under,
the drink devil or Jerry Barker, and I said that it should not be Jerry
Barker, God helping me; but it was a struggle, and I wanted all the
help I could get, for till I tried to break the habit I did not know how
strong it was; but then Polly took such pains that I should have good
food, and when the craving came on I used to get a cup of coffee, or
some peppermint, or read a bit in my book, and that was a help to me;
sometimes I had to say over and over to myself, 'Give up the drink or
lose your soul! Give up the drink or break Polly's heart!' But thanks be
to God, and my dear wife, my chains were broken, and now for ten years I
have not tasted a drop, and never wish for it.”

“I've a great mind to try at it,” said Grant, “for 'tis a poor thing not
to be one's own master.”

“Do, governor, do, you'll never repent it, and what a help it would be
to some of the poor fellows in our rank if they saw you do without it. I
know there's two or three would like to keep out of that tavern if they
could.”

At first Captain seemed to do well, but he was a very old horse, and it
was only his wonderful constitution, and Jerry's care, that had kept
him up at the cab work so long; now he broke down very much. The farrier
said he might mend up enough to sell for a few pounds, but Jerry said,
no! a few pounds got by selling a good old servant into hard work
and misery would canker all the rest of his money, and he thought the
kindest thing he could do for the fine old fellow would be to put a sure
bullet through his head, and then he would never suffer more; for he did
not know where to find a kind master for the rest of his days.

The day after this was decided Harry took me to the forge for some new
shoes; when I returned Captain was gone. I and the family all felt it
very much.

Jerry had now to look out for another horse, and he soon heard of one
through an acquaintance who was under-groom in a nobleman's stables. He
was a valuable young horse, but he had run away, smashed into another
carriage, flung his lordship out, and so cut and blemished himself that
he was no longer fit for a gentleman's stables, and the coachman had
orders to look round, and sell him as well as he could.

“I can do with high spirits,” said Jerry, “if a horse is not vicious or
hard-mouthed.”

“There is not a bit of vice in him,” said the man; “his mouth is very
tender, and I think myself that was the cause of the accident; you see
he had just been clipped, and the weather was bad, and he had not had
exercise enough, and when he did go out he was as full of spring as a
balloon. Our governor (the coachman, I mean) had him harnessed in as
tight and strong as he could, with the martingale, and the check-rein, a
very sharp curb, and the reins put in at the bottom bar. It is my belief
that it made the horse mad, being tender in the mouth and so full of
spirit.”

“Likely enough; I'll come and see him,” said Jerry.

The next day Hotspur, that was his name, came home; he was a fine brown
horse, without a white hair in him, as tall as Captain, with a very
handsome head, and only five years old. I gave him a friendly greeting
by way of good fellowship, but did not ask him any questions. The first
night he was very restless. Instead of lying down, he kept jerking his
halter rope up and down through the ring, and knocking the block about
against the manger till I could not sleep. However, the next day, after
five or six hours in the cab, he came in quiet and sensible. Jerry
patted and talked to him a good deal, and very soon they understood each
other, and Jerry said that with an easy bit and plenty of work he would
be as gentle as a lamb; and that it was an ill wind that blew nobody
good, for if his lordship had lost a hundred-guinea favorite, the cabman
had gained a good horse with all his strength in him.

Hotspur thought it a great come-down to be a cab-horse, and was
disgusted at standing in the rank, but he confessed to me at the end of
the week that an easy mouth and a free head made up for a great deal,
and after all, the work was not so degrading as having one's head and
tail fastened to each other at the saddle. In fact, he settled in well,
and Jerry liked him very much.




45 Jerry's New Year


For some people Christmas and the New Year are very merry times; but for
cabmen and cabmen's horses it is no holiday, though it may be a harvest.
There are so many parties, balls, and places of amusement open that the
work is hard and often late. Sometimes driver and horse have to wait
for hours in the rain or frost, shivering with the cold, while the merry
people within are dancing away to the music. I wonder if the beautiful
ladies ever think of the weary cabman waiting on his box, and his
patient beast standing, till his legs get stiff with cold.

I had now most of the evening work, as I was well accustomed to
standing, and Jerry was also more afraid of Hotspur taking cold. We had
a great deal of late work in the Christmas week, and Jerry's cough was
bad; but however late we were, Polly sat up for him, and came out with a
lantern to meet him, looking anxious and troubled.

On the evening of the New Year we had to take two gentlemen to a house
in one of the West End Squares. We set them down at nine o'clock, and
were told to come again at eleven, “but,” said one, “as it is a card
party, you may have to wait a few minutes, but don't be late.”

As the clock struck eleven we were at the door, for Jerry was always
punctual. The clock chimed the quarters, one, two, three, and then
struck twelve, but the door did not open.

The wind had been very changeable, with squalls of rain during the day,
but now it came on sharp, driving sleet, which seemed to come all the
way round; it was very cold, and there was no shelter. Jerry got off
his box and came and pulled one of my cloths a little more over my neck;
then he took a turn or two up and down, stamping his feet; then he began
to beat his arms, but that set him off coughing; so he opened the cab
door and sat at the bottom with his feet on the pavement, and was a
little sheltered. Still the clock chimed the quarters, and no one came.
At half-past twelve he rang the bell and asked the servant if he would
be wanted that night.

“Oh, yes, you'll be wanted safe enough,” said the man; “you must not go,
it will soon be over,” and again Jerry sat down, but his voice was so
hoarse I could hardly hear him.

At a quarter past one the door opened, and the two gentlemen came out;
they got into the cab without a word, and told Jerry where to drive,
that was nearly two miles. My legs were numb with cold, and I thought
I should have stumbled. When the men got out they never said they were
sorry to have kept us waiting so long, but were angry at the charge;
however, as Jerry never charged more than was his due, so he never took
less, and they had to pay for the two hours and a quarter waiting; but
it was hard-earned money to Jerry.

At last we got home; he could hardly speak, and his cough was dreadful.
Polly asked no questions, but opened the door and held the lantern for
him.

“Can't I do something?” she said.

“Yes; get Jack something warm, and then boil me some gruel.”

This was said in a hoarse whisper; he could hardly get his breath, but
he gave me a rub-down as usual, and even went up into the hayloft for an
extra bundle of straw for my bed. Polly brought me a warm mash that made
me comfortable, and then they locked the door.

It was late the next morning before any one came, and then it was only
Harry. He cleaned us and fed us, and swept out the stalls, then he put
the straw back again as if it was Sunday. He was very still, and neither
whistled nor sang. At noon he came again and gave us our food and water;
this time Dolly came with him; she was crying, and I could gather from
what they said that Jerry was dangerously ill, and the doctor said it
was a bad case. So two days passed, and there was great trouble indoors.
We only saw Harry, and sometimes Dolly. I think she came for company,
for Polly was always with Jerry, and he had to be kept very quiet.

On the third day, while Harry was in the stable, a tap came at the door,
and Governor Grant came in.

“I wouldn't go to the house, my boy,” he said, “but I want to know how
your father is.”

“He is very bad,” said Harry, “he can't be much worse; they call
it 'bronchitis'; the doctor thinks it will turn one way or another
to-night.”

“That's bad, very bad,” said Grant, shaking his head; “I know two men
who died of that last week; it takes 'em off in no time; but while
there's life there's hope, so you must keep up your spirits.”

“Yes,” said Harry quickly, “and the doctor said that father had a better
chance than most men, because he didn't drink. He said yesterday the
fever was so high that if father had been a drinking man it would have
burned him up like a piece of paper; but I believe he thinks he will get
over it; don't you think he will, Mr. Grant?”

The governor looked puzzled.

“If there's any rule that good men should get over these things, I'm
sure he will, my boy; he's the best man I know. I'll look in early
to-morrow.”

Early next morning he was there.

“Well?” said he.

“Father is better,” said Harry. “Mother hopes he will get over it.”

“Thank God!” said the governor, “and now you must keep him warm, and
keep his mind easy, and that brings me to the horses; you see Jack will
be all the better for the rest of a week or two in a warm stable, and
you can easily take him a turn up and down the street to stretch his
legs; but this young one, if he does not get work, he will soon be all
up on end, as you may say, and will be rather too much for you; and when
he does go out there'll be an accident.”

“It is like that now,” said Harry. “I have kept him short of corn, but
he's so full of spirit I don't know what to do with him.”

“Just so,” said Grant. “Now look here, will you tell your mother that
if she is agreeable I will come for him every day till something is
arranged, and take him for a good spell of work, and whatever he earns,
I'll bring your mother half of it, and that will help with the horses'
feed. Your father is in a good club, I know, but that won't keep the
horses, and they'll be eating their heads off all this time; I'll come
at noon and hear what she says,” and without waiting for Harry's thanks
he was gone.

At noon I think he went and saw Polly, for he and Harry came to the
stable together, harnessed Hotspur, and took him out.

For a week or more he came for Hotspur, and when Harry thanked him or
said anything about his kindness, he laughed it off, saying it was all
good luck for him, for his horses were wanting a little rest which they
would not otherwise have had.

Jerry grew better steadily, but the doctor said that he must never go
back to the cab work again if he wished to be an old man. The children
had many consultations together about what father and mother would do,
and how they could help to earn money.

One afternoon Hotspur was brought in very wet and dirty.

“The streets are nothing but slush,” said the governor; “it will give
you a good warming, my boy, to get him clean and dry.”

“All right, governor,” said Harry, “I shall not leave him till he is;
you know I have been trained by my father.”

“I wish all the boys had been trained like you,” said the governor.

While Harry was sponging off the mud from Hotspur's body and legs Dolly
came in, looking very full of something.

“Who lives at Fairstowe, Harry? Mother has got a letter from Fairstowe;
she seemed so glad, and ran upstairs to father with it.”

“Don't you know? Why, it is the name of Mrs. Fowler's place--mother's
old mistress, you know--the lady that father met last summer, who sent
you and me five shillings each.”

“Oh! Mrs. Fowler. Of course, I know all about her. I wonder what she is
writing to mother about.”

“Mother wrote to her last week,” said Harry; “you know she told father
if ever he gave up the cab work she would like to know. I wonder what
she says; run in and see, Dolly.”

Harry scrubbed away at Hotspur with a huish! huish! like any old
hostler. In a few minutes Dolly came dancing into the stable.

“Oh! Harry, there never was anything so beautiful; Mrs. Fowler says we
are all to go and live near her. There is a cottage now empty that
will just suit us, with a garden and a henhouse, and apple-trees, and
everything! and her coachman is going away in the spring, and then she
will want father in his place; and there are good families round, where
you can get a place in the garden or the stable, or as a page-boy;
and there's a good school for me; and mother is laughing and crying by
turns, and father does look so happy!”

“That's uncommon jolly,” said Harry, “and just the right thing, I should
say; it will suit father and mother both; but I don't intend to be a
page-boy with tight clothes and rows of buttons. I'll be a groom or a
gardener.”

It was quickly settled that as soon as Jerry was well enough they should
remove to the country, and that the cab and horses should be sold as
soon as possible.

This was heavy news for me, for I was not young now, and could not look
for any improvement in my condition. Since I left Birtwick I had never
been so happy as with my dear master Jerry; but three years of cab work,
even under the best conditions, will tell on one's strength, and I felt
that I was not the horse that I had been.

Grant said at once that he would take Hotspur, and there were men on the
stand who would have bought me; but Jerry said I should not go to cab
work again with just anybody, and the governor promised to find a place
for me where I should be comfortable.

The day came for going away. Jerry had not been allowed to go out yet,
and I never saw him after that New Year's eve. Polly and the children
came to bid me good-by. “Poor old Jack! dear old Jack! I wish we could
take you with us,” she said, and then laying her hand on my mane she put
her face close to my neck and kissed me. Dolly was crying and kissed
me too. Harry stroked me a great deal, but said nothing, only he seemed
very sad, and so I was led away to my new place.




Part IV




46 Jakes and the Lady


I was sold to a corn dealer and baker, whom Jerry knew, and with him he
thought I should have good food and fair work. In the first he was quite
right, and if my master had always been on the premises I do not think
I should have been overloaded, but there was a foreman who was always
hurrying and driving every one, and frequently when I had quite a full
load he would order something else to be taken on. My carter, whose name
was Jakes, often said it was more than I ought to take, but the other
always overruled him. “'Twas no use going twice when once would do, and
he chose to get business forward.”

Jakes, like the other carters, always had the check-rein up, which
prevented me from drawing easily, and by the time I had been there three
or four months I found the work telling very much on my strength.

One day I was loaded more than usual, and part of the road was a steep
uphill. I used all my strength, but I could not get on, and was obliged
continually to stop. This did not please my driver, and he laid his whip
on badly. “Get on, you lazy fellow,” he said, “or I'll make you.”

Again I started the heavy load, and struggled on a few yards; again the
whip came down, and again I struggled forward. The pain of that great
cart whip was sharp, but my mind was hurt quite as much as my poor
sides. To be punished and abused when I was doing my very best was
so hard it took the heart out of me. A third time he was flogging me
cruelly, when a lady stepped quickly up to him, and said in a sweet,
earnest voice:

“Oh! pray do not whip your good horse any more; I am sure he is doing
all he can, and the road is very steep; I am sure he is doing his best.”

“If doing his best won't get this load up he must do something more than
his best; that's all I know, ma'am,” said Jakes.

“But is it not a heavy load?” she said.

“Yes, yes, too heavy,” he said; “but that's not my fault; the foreman
came just as we were starting, and would have three hundredweight more
put on to save him trouble, and I must get on with it as well as I can.”

He was raising the whip again, when the lady said:

“Pray, stop; I think I can help you if you will let me.”

The man laughed.

“You see,” she said, “you do not give him a fair chance; he cannot use
all his power with his head held back as it is with that check-rein; if
you would take it off I am sure he would do better--do try it,” she said
persuasively, “I should be very glad if you would.”

“Well, well,” said Jakes, with a short laugh, “anything to please a
lady, of course. How far would you wish it down, ma'am?”

“Quite down, give him his head altogether.”

The rein was taken off, and in a moment I put my head down to my very
knees. What a comfort it was! Then I tossed it up and down several times
to get the aching stiffness out of my neck.

“Poor fellow! that is what you wanted,” said she, patting and stroking
me with her gentle hand; “and now if you will speak kindly to him and
lead him on I believe he will be able to do better.”

Jakes took the rein. “Come on, Blackie.” I put down my head, and threw
my whole weight against the collar; I spared no strength; the load
moved on, and I pulled it steadily up the hill, and then stopped to take
breath.

The lady had walked along the footpath, and now came across into the
road. She stroked and patted my neck, as I had not been patted for many
a long day.

“You see he was quite willing when you gave him the chance; I am sure he
is a fine-tempered creature, and I dare say has known better days. You
won't put that rein on again, will you?” for he was just going to hitch
it up on the old plan.

“Well, ma'am, I can't deny that having his head has helped him up the
hill, and I'll remember it another time, and thank you, ma'am; but if
he went without a check-rein I should be the laughing-stock of all the
carters; it is the fashion, you see.”

“Is it not better,” she said, “to lead a good fashion than to follow a
bad one? A great many gentlemen do not use check-reins now; our carriage
horses have not worn them for fifteen years, and work with much less
fatigue than those who have them; besides,” she added in a very serious
voice, “we have no right to distress any of God's creatures without a
very good reason; we call them dumb animals, and so they are, for they
cannot tell us how they feel, but they do not suffer less because they
have no words. But I must not detain you now; I thank you for trying
my plan with your good horse, and I am sure you will find it far better
than the whip. Good-day,” and with another soft pat on my neck she
stepped lightly across the path, and I saw her no more.

“That was a real lady, I'll be bound for it,” said Jakes to himself;
“she spoke just as polite as if I was a gentleman, and I'll try her
plan, uphill, at any rate;” and I must do him the justice to say that
he let my rein out several holes, and going uphill after that, he always
gave me my head; but the heavy loads went on. Good feed and fair rest
will keep up one's strength under full work, but no horse can stand
against overloading; and I was getting so thoroughly pulled down from
this cause that a younger horse was bought in my place. I may as well
mention here what I suffered at this time from another cause. I had
heard horses speak of it, but had never myself had experience of the
evil; this was a badly-lighted stable; there was only one very small
window at the end, and the consequence was that the stalls were almost
dark.

Besides the depressing effect this had on my spirits, it very much
weakened my sight, and when I was suddenly brought out of the darkness
into the glare of daylight it was very painful to my eyes. Several times
I stumbled over the threshold, and could scarcely see where I was going.

I believe, had I stayed there very long, I should have become purblind,
and that would have been a great misfortune, for I have heard men say
that a stone-blind horse was safer to drive than one which had imperfect
sight, as it generally makes them very timid. However, I escaped without
any permanent injury to my sight, and was sold to a large cab owner.




47 Hard Times


My new master I shall never forget; he had black eyes and a hooked nose,
his mouth was as full of teeth as a bull-dog's, and his voice was as
harsh as the grinding of cart wheels over graveled stones. His name was
Nicholas Skinner, and I believe he was the man that poor Seedy Sam drove
for.

I have heard men say that seeing is believing; but I should say that
feeling is believing; for much as I had seen before, I never knew till
now the utter misery of a cab-horse's life.

Skinner had a low set of cabs and a low set of drivers; he was hard on
the men, and the men were hard on the horses. In this place we had no
Sunday rest, and it was in the heat of summer.

Sometimes on a Sunday morning a party of fast men would hire the cab for
the day; four of them inside and another with the driver, and I had to
take them ten or fifteen miles out into the country, and back again;
never would any of them get down to walk up a hill, let it be ever
so steep, or the day ever so hot--unless, indeed, when the driver was
afraid I should not manage it, and sometimes I was so fevered and worn
that I could hardly touch my food. How I used to long for the nice bran
mash with niter in it that Jerry used to give us on Saturday nights in
hot weather, that used to cool us down and make us so comfortable.
Then we had two nights and a whole day for unbroken rest, and on Monday
morning we were as fresh as young horses again; but here there was no
rest, and my driver was just as hard as his master. He had a cruel whip
with something so sharp at the end that it sometimes drew blood, and he
would even whip me under the belly, and flip the lash out at my head.
Indignities like these took the heart out of me terribly, but still I
did my best and never hung back; for, as poor Ginger said, it was no
use; men are the strongest.

My life was now so utterly wretched that I wished I might, like Ginger,
drop down dead at my work and be out of my misery, and one day my wish
very nearly came to pass.

I went on the stand at eight in the morning, and had done a good share
of work, when we had to take a fare to the railway. A long train was
just expected in, so my driver pulled up at the back of some of the
outside cabs to take the chance of a return fare. It was a very heavy
train, and as all the cabs were soon engaged ours was called for. There
was a party of four; a noisy, blustering man with a lady, a little boy
and a young girl, and a great deal of luggage. The lady and the boy got
into the cab, and while the man ordered about the luggage the young girl
came and looked at me.

“Papa,” she said, “I am sure this poor horse cannot take us and all our
luggage so far, he is so very weak and worn up. Do look at him.”

“Oh! he's all right, miss,” said my driver, “he's strong enough.”

The porter, who was pulling about some heavy boxes, suggested to the
gentleman, as there was so much luggage, whether he would not take a
second cab.

“Can your horse do it, or can't he?” said the blustering man.

“Oh! he can do it all right, sir; send up the boxes, porter; he could
take more than that;” and he helped to haul up a box so heavy that I
could feel the springs go down.

“Papa, papa, do take a second cab,” said the young girl in a beseeching
tone. “I am sure we are wrong, I am sure it is very cruel.”

“Nonsense, Grace, get in at once, and don't make all this fuss; a pretty
thing it would be if a man of business had to examine every cab-horse
before he hired it--the man knows his own business of course; there, get
in and hold your tongue!”

My gentle friend had to obey, and box after box was dragged up and
lodged on the top of the cab or settled by the side of the driver. At
last all was ready, and with his usual jerk at the rein and slash of the
whip he drove out of the station.

The load was very heavy and I had had neither food nor rest since
morning; but I did my best, as I always had done, in spite of cruelty
and injustice.

I got along fairly till we came to Ludgate Hill; but there the heavy
load and my own exhaustion were too much. I was struggling to keep on,
goaded by constant chucks of the rein and use of the whip, when in a
single moment--I cannot tell how--my feet slipped from under me, and I
fell heavily to the ground on my side; the suddenness and the force
with which I fell seemed to beat all the breath out of my body. I lay
perfectly still; indeed, I had no power to move, and I thought now I was
going to die. I heard a sort of confusion round me, loud, angry voices,
and the getting down of the luggage, but it was all like a dream. I
thought I heard that sweet, pitiful voice saying, “Oh! that poor horse!
it is all our fault.” Some one came and loosened the throat strap of
my bridle, and undid the traces which kept the collar so tight upon me.
Some one said, “He's dead, he'll never get up again.” Then I could hear
a policeman giving orders, but I did not even open my eyes; I could only
draw a gasping breath now and then. Some cold water was thrown over
my head, and some cordial was poured into my mouth, and something was
covered over me. I cannot tell how long I lay there, but I found my life
coming back, and a kind-voiced man was patting me and encouraging me to
rise. After some more cordial had been given me, and after one or two
attempts, I staggered to my feet, and was gently led to some stables
which were close by. Here I was put into a well-littered stall, and some
warm gruel was brought to me, which I drank thankfully.

In the evening I was sufficiently recovered to be led back to Skinner's
stables, where I think they did the best for me they could. In the
morning Skinner came with a farrier to look at me. He examined me very
closely and said:

“This is a case of overwork more than disease, and if you could give him
a run off for six months he would be able to work again; but now there
is not an ounce of strength left in him.”

“Then he must just go to the dogs,” said Skinner. “I have no meadows to
nurse sick horses in--he might get well or he might not; that sort of
thing don't suit my business; my plan is to work 'em as long as they'll
go, and then sell 'em for what they'll fetch, at the knacker's or
elsewhere.”

“If he was broken-winded,” said the farrier, “you had better have him
killed out of hand, but he is not; there is a sale of horses coming off
in about ten days; if you rest him and feed him up he may pick up, and
you may get more than his skin is worth, at any rate.”

Upon this advice Skinner, rather unwillingly, I think, gave orders that
I should be well fed and cared for, and the stable man, happily for me,
carried out the orders with a much better will than his master had in
giving them. Ten days of perfect rest, plenty of good oats, hay,
bran mashes, with boiled linseed mixed in them, did more to get up my
condition than anything else could have done; those linseed mashes were
delicious, and I began to think, after all, it might be better to live
than go to the dogs. When the twelfth day after the accident came, I
was taken to the sale, a few miles out of London. I felt that any change
from my present place must be an improvement, so I held up my head, and
hoped for the best.




48 Farmer Thoroughgood and His Grandson Willie


At this sale, of course I found myself in company with the old
broken-down horses--some lame, some broken-winded, some old, and some
that I am sure it would have been merciful to shoot.

The buyers and sellers, too, many of them, looked not much better off
than the poor beasts they were bargaining about. There were poor old
men, trying to get a horse or a pony for a few pounds, that might drag
about some little wood or coal cart. There were poor men trying to sell
a worn-out beast for two or three pounds, rather than have the greater
loss of killing him. Some of them looked as if poverty and hard times
had hardened them all over; but there were others that I would have
willingly used the last of my strength in serving; poor and shabby, but
kind and human, with voices that I could trust. There was one tottering
old man who took a great fancy to me, and I to him, but I was not strong
enough--it was an anxious time! Coming from the better part of the fair,
I noticed a man who looked like a gentleman farmer, with a young boy by
his side; he had a broad back and round shoulders, a kind, ruddy face,
and he wore a broad-brimmed hat. When he came up to me and my companions
he stood still and gave a pitiful look round upon us. I saw his eye
rest on me; I had still a good mane and tail, which did something for my
appearance. I pricked my ears and looked at him.

“There's a horse, Willie, that has known better days.”

“Poor old fellow!” said the boy, “do you think, grandpapa, he was ever a
carriage horse?”

“Oh, yes! my boy,” said the farmer, coming closer, “he might have been
anything when he was young; look at his nostrils and his ears, the shape
of his neck and shoulder; there's a deal of breeding about that horse.”
 He put out his hand and gave me a kind pat on the neck. I put out my
nose in answer to his kindness; the boy stroked my face.

“Poor old fellow! see, grandpapa, how well he understands kindness.
Could not you buy him and make him young again as you did with
Ladybird?”

“My dear boy, I can't make all old horses young; besides, Ladybird was
not so very old, as she was run down and badly used.”

“Well, grandpapa, I don't believe that this one is old; look at his mane
and tail. I wish you would look into his mouth, and then you could tell;
though he is so very thin, his eyes are not sunk like some old horses'.”

The old gentleman laughed. “Bless the boy! he is as horsey as his old
grandfather.”

“But do look at his mouth, grandpapa, and ask the price; I am sure he
would grow young in our meadows.”

The man who had brought me for sale now put in his word.

“The young gentleman's a real knowing one, sir. Now the fact is, this
'ere hoss is just pulled down with overwork in the cabs; he's not an old
one, and I heerd as how the vetenary should say, that a six months' run
off would set him right up, being as how his wind was not broken.
I've had the tending of him these ten days past, and a gratefuller,
pleasanter animal I never met with, and 'twould be worth a gentleman's
while to give a five-pound note for him, and let him have a chance. I'll
be bound he'd be worth twenty pounds next spring.”

The old gentleman laughed, and the little boy looked up eagerly.

“Oh, grandpapa, did you not say the colt sold for five pounds more than
you expected? You would not be poorer if you did buy this one.”

The farmer slowly felt my legs, which were much swelled and strained;
then he looked at my mouth. “Thirteen or fourteen, I should say; just
trot him out, will you?”

I arched my poor thin neck, raised my tail a little, and threw out my
legs as well as I could, for they were very stiff.

“What is the lowest you will take for him?” said the farmer as I came
back.

“Five pounds, sir; that was the lowest price my master set.”

“'Tis a speculation,” said the old gentleman, shaking his head, but at
the same time slowly drawing out his purse, “quite a speculation! Have
you any more business here?” he said, counting the sovereigns into his
hand.

“No, sir, I can take him for you to the inn, if you please.”

“Do so, I am now going there.”

They walked forward, and I was led behind. The boy could hardly control
his delight, and the old gentleman seemed to enjoy his pleasure. I had a
good feed at the inn, and was then gently ridden home by a servant of my
new master's, and turned into a large meadow with a shed in one corner
of it.

Mr. Thoroughgood, for that was the name of my benefactor, gave orders
that I should have hay and oats every night and morning, and the run of
the meadow during the day, and, “you, Willie,” said he, “must take the
oversight of him; I give him in charge to you.”

The boy was proud of his charge, and undertook it in all seriousness.
There was not a day when he did not pay me a visit; sometimes picking
me out from among the other horses, and giving me a bit of carrot, or
something good, or sometimes standing by me while I ate my oats. He
always came with kind words and caresses, and of course I grew very fond
of him. He called me Old Crony, as I used to come to him in the field
and follow him about. Sometimes he brought his grandfather, who always
looked closely at my legs.

“This is our point, Willie,” he would say; “but he is improving so
steadily that I think we shall see a change for the better in the
spring.”

The perfect rest, the good food, the soft turf, and gentle exercise,
soon began to tell on my condition and my spirits. I had a good
constitution from my mother, and I was never strained when I was young,
so that I had a better chance than many horses who have been worked
before they came to their full strength. During the winter my legs
improved so much that I began to feel quite young again. The spring came
round, and one day in March Mr. Thoroughgood determined that he would
try me in the phaeton. I was well pleased, and he and Willie drove me a
few miles. My legs were not stiff now, and I did the work with perfect
ease.

“He's growing young, Willie; we must give him a little gentle work now,
and by mid-summer he will be as good as Ladybird. He has a beautiful
mouth and good paces; they can't be better.”

“Oh, grandpapa, how glad I am you bought him!”

“So am I, my boy; but he has to thank you more than me; we must now
be looking out for a quiet, genteel place for him, where he will be
valued.”




49 My Last Home


One day during this summer the groom cleaned and dressed me with such
extraordinary care that I thought some new change must be at hand; he
trimmed my fetlocks and legs, passed the tarbrush over my hoofs, and
even parted my forelock. I think the harness had an extra polish. Willie
seemed half-anxious, half-merry, as he got into the chaise with his
grandfather.

“If the ladies take to him,” said the old gentleman, “they'll be suited
and he'll be suited. We can but try.”

At the distance of a mile or two from the village we came to a pretty,
low house, with a lawn and shrubbery at the front and a drive up to the
door. Willie rang the bell, and asked if Miss Blomefield or Miss Ellen
was at home. Yes, they were. So, while Willie stayed with me, Mr.
Thoroughgood went into the house. In about ten minutes he returned,
followed by three ladies; one tall, pale lady, wrapped in a white shawl,
leaned on a younger lady, with dark eyes and a merry face; the other,
a very stately-looking person, was Miss Blomefield. They all came
and looked at me and asked questions. The younger lady--that was Miss
Ellen--took to me very much; she said she was sure she should like me, I
had such a good face. The tall, pale lady said that she should always
be nervous in riding behind a horse that had once been down, as I might
come down again, and if I did she should never get over the fright.

“You see, ladies,” said Mr. Thoroughgood, “many first-rate horses have
had their knees broken through the carelessness of their drivers without
any fault of their own, and from what I see of this horse I should say
that is his case; but of course I do not wish to influence you. If you
incline you can have him on trial, and then your coachman will see what
he thinks of him.”

“You have always been such a good adviser to us about our horses,” said
the stately lady, “that your recommendation would go a long way with me,
and if my sister Lavinia sees no objection we will accept your offer of
a trial, with thanks.”

It was then arranged that I should be sent for the next day.

In the morning a smart-looking young man came for me. At first he looked
pleased; but when he saw my knees he said in a disappointed voice:

“I didn't think, sir, you would have recommended my ladies a blemished
horse like that.”

“'Handsome is that handsome does',” said my master; “you are only taking
him on trial, and I am sure you will do fairly by him, young man. If he
is not as safe as any horse you ever drove send him back.”

I was led to my new home, placed in a comfortable stable, fed, and left
to myself. The next day, when the groom was cleaning my face, he said:

“That is just like the star that 'Black Beauty' had; he is much the same
height, too. I wonder where he is now.”

A little further on he came to the place in my neck where I was bled and
where a little knot was left in the skin. He almost started, and began
to look me over carefully, talking to himself.

“White star in the forehead, one white foot on the off side, this little
knot just in that place;” then looking at the middle of my back--“and,
as I am alive, there is that little patch of white hair that John used
to call 'Beauty's three-penny bit'. It must be 'Black Beauty'! Why,
Beauty! Beauty! do you know me?--little Joe Green, that almost killed
you?” And he began patting and patting me as if he was quite overjoyed.

I could not say that I remembered him, for now he was a fine grown young
fellow, with black whiskers and a man's voice, but I was sure he knew
me, and that he was Joe Green, and I was very glad. I put my nose up
to him, and tried to say that we were friends. I never saw a man so
pleased.

“Give you a fair trial! I should think so indeed! I wonder who the
rascal was that broke your knees, my old Beauty! you must have been
badly served out somewhere; well, well, it won't be my fault if you
haven't good times of it now. I wish John Manly was here to see you.”

In the afternoon I was put into a low park chair and brought to the
door. Miss Ellen was going to try me, and Green went with her. I soon
found that she was a good driver, and she seemed pleased with my paces.
I heard Joe telling her about me, and that he was sure I was Squire
Gordon's old “Black Beauty”.

When we returned the other sisters came out to hear how I had behaved
myself. She told them what she had just heard, and said:

“I shall certainly write to Mrs. Gordon, and tell her that her favorite
horse has come to us. How pleased she will be!”

After this I was driven every day for a week or so, and as I appeared
to be quite safe, Miss Lavinia at last ventured out in the small close
carriage. After this it was quite decided to keep me and call me by my
old name of “Black Beauty”.

I have now lived in this happy place a whole year. Joe is the best and
kindest of grooms. My work is easy and pleasant, and I feel my strength
and spirits all coming back again. Mr. Thoroughgood said to Joe the
other day:

“In your place he will last till he is twenty years old--perhaps more.”

Willie always speaks to me when he can, and treats me as his special
friend. My ladies have promised that I shall never be sold, and so I
have nothing to fear; and here my story ends. My troubles are all over,
and I am at home; and often before I am quite awake, I fancy I am still
in the orchard at Birtwick, standing with my old friends under the
apple-trees.
For two or three minutes he stood looking round him, while Mary watched
him, and then he began to walk about softly, even more lightly than Mary
had walked the first time she had found herself inside the four walls.
His eyes seemed to be taking in everything--the gray trees with the gray
creepers climbing over them and hanging from their branches, the tangle
on the walls and among the grass, the evergreen alcoves with the stone
seats and tall flower urns standing in them.

"I never thought I'd see this place," he said at last, in a whisper.

"Did you know about it?" asked Mary.

She had spoken aloud and he made a sign to her.

"We must talk low," he said, "or some one'll hear us an' wonder what's
to do in here."

"Oh! I forgot!" said Mary, feeling frightened and putting her hand
quickly against her mouth. "Did you know about the garden?" she asked
again when she had recovered herself.

Dickon nodded.

"Martha told me there was one as no one ever went inside," he answered.
"Us used to wonder what it was like."

He stopped and looked round at the lovely gray tangle about him, and his
round eyes looked queerly happy.

"Eh! the nests as'll be here come springtime," he said. "It'd be th'
safest nestin' place in England. No one never comin' near an' tangles o'
trees an' roses to build in. I wonder all th' birds on th' moor don't
build here."

Mistress Mary put her hand on his arm again without knowing it.

"Will there be roses?" she whispered. "Can you tell? I thought perhaps
they were all dead."

"Eh! No! Not them--not all of 'em!" he answered. "Look here!"

He stepped over to the nearest tree--an old, old one with gray lichen
all over its bark, but upholding a curtain of tangled sprays and
branches. He took a thick knife out of his pocket and opened one of its
blades.

"There's lots o' dead wood as ought to be cut out," he said. "An'
there's a lot o' old wood, but it made some new last year. This here's a
new bit," and he touched a shoot which looked brownish green instead of
hard, dry gray.

Mary touched it herself in an eager, reverent way.

"That one?" she said. "Is that one quite alive--quite?"

Dickon curved his wide smiling mouth.

"It's as wick as you or me," he said; and Mary remembered that Martha
had told her that "wick" meant "alive" or "lively."

"I'm glad it's wick!" she cried out in her whisper. "I want them all to
be wick. Let us go round the garden and count how many wick ones there
are."

She quite panted with eagerness, and Dickon was as eager as she was.
They went from tree to tree and from bush to bush. Dickon carried his
knife in his hand and showed her things which she thought wonderful.

"They've run wild," he said, "but th' strongest ones has fair thrived on
it. The delicatest ones has died out, but th' others has growed an'
growed, an' spread an' spread, till they's a wonder. See here!" and he
pulled down a thick gray, dry-looking branch. "A body might think this
was dead wood, but I don't believe it is--down to th' root. I'll cut it
low down an' see."

He knelt and with his knife cut the lifeless-looking branch through, not
far above the earth.

"There!" he said exultantly. "I told thee so. There's green in that
wood yet. Look at it."

Mary was down on her knees before he spoke, gazing with all her might.

"When it looks a bit greenish an' juicy like that, it's wick," he
explained. "When th' inside is dry an' breaks easy, like this here piece
I've cut off, it's done for. There's a big root here as all this live
wood sprung out of, an' if th' old wood's cut off an' it's dug round,
an' took care of there'll be--" he stopped and lifted his face to look
up at the climbing and hanging sprays above him--"there'll be a fountain
o' roses here this summer."

They went from bush to bush and from tree to tree. He was very strong
and clever with his knife and knew how to cut the dry and dead wood
away, and could tell when an unpromising bough or twig had still green
life in it. In the course of half an hour Mary thought she could tell
too, and when he cut through a lifeless-looking branch she would cry out
joyfully under her breath when she caught sight of the least shade of
moist green. The spade, and hoe, and fork were very useful. He showed
her how to use the fork while he dug about roots with the spade and
stirred the earth and let the air in.

They were working industriously round one of the biggest standard roses
when he caught sight of something which made him utter an exclamation of
surprise.

"Why!" he cried, pointing to the grass a few feet away. "Who did that
there?"

It was one of Mary's own little clearings round the pale green points.

"I did it," said Mary.

"Why, I thought tha' didn't know nothin' about gardenin'," he exclaimed.

"I don't," she answered, "but they were so little, and the grass was so
thick and strong, and they looked as if they had no room to breathe. So
I made a place for them. I don't even know what they are."

Dickon went and knelt down by them, smiling his wide smile.

"Tha' was right," he said. "A gardener couldn't have told thee better.
They'll grow now like Jack's bean-stalk. They're crocuses an' snowdrops,
an' these here is narcissuses," turning to another patch, "an' here's
daffydowndillys. Eh! they will be a sight."

He ran from one clearing to another.

"Tha' has done a lot o' work for such a little wench," he said, looking
her over.

"I'm growing fatter," said Mary, "and I'm growing stronger. I used
always to be tired. When I dig I'm not tired at all. I like to smell
the earth when it's turned up."

"It's rare good for thee," he said, nodding his head wisely. "There's
naught as nice as th' smell o' good clean earth, except th' smell o'
fresh growin' things when th' rain falls on 'em. I get out on th' moor
many a day when it's rainin' an' I lie under a bush an' listen to th'
soft swish o' drops on th' heather an' I just sniff an' sniff. My nose
end fair quivers like a rabbit's, mother says."

"Do you never catch cold?" inquired Mary, gazing at him wonderingly. She
had never seen such a funny boy, or such a nice one.

"Not me," he said, grinning. "I never ketched cold since I was born. I
wasn't brought up nesh enough. I've chased about th' moor in all
weathers same as th' rabbits does. Mother says I've sniffed up too much
fresh air for twelve year' to ever get to sniffin' with cold. I'm as
tough as a white-thorn knobstick."

He was working all the time he was talking and Mary was following him
and helping him with her fork or the trowel.

"There's a lot of work to do here!" he said once, looking about quite
exultantly.

"Will you come again and help me to do it?" Mary begged. "I'm sure I can
help, too. I can dig and pull up weeds, and do whatever you tell me.
Oh! do come, Dickon!"

"I'll come every day if tha' wants me, rain or shine," he answered
stoutly. "It's th' best fun I ever had in my life--shut in here an'
wakenin' up a garden."

"If you will come," said Mary, "if you will help me to make it alive
I'll--I don't know what I'll do," she ended helplessly. What could you
do for a boy like that?

"I'll tell thee what tha'll do," said Dickon, with his happy grin.
"Tha'll get fat an' tha'll get as hungry as a young fox an' tha'll learn
how to talk to th' robin same as I do. Eh! we'll have a lot o' fun."

He began to walk about, looking up in the trees and at the walls and
bushes with a thoughtful expression.

"I wouldn't want to make it look like a gardener's garden, all clipped
an' spick an' span, would you?" he said. "It's nicer like this with
things runnin' wild, an' swingin' an' catchin' hold of each other."

"Don't let us make it tidy," said Mary anxiously. "It wouldn't seem like
a secret garden if it was tidy."

Dickon stood rubbing his rusty-red head with a rather puzzled look.

"It's a secret garden sure enough," he said, "but seems like some one
besides th' robin must have been in it since it was shut up ten year'
ago."

"But the door was locked and the key was buried," said Mary. "No one
could get in."

"That's true," he answered. "It's a queer place. Seems to me as if
there'd been a bit o' prunin' done here an' there, later than ten year'
ago."

"But how could it have been done?" said Mary.

He was examining a branch of a standard rose and he shook his head.

"Aye! how could it!" he murmured. "With th' door locked an' th' key
buried."

Mistress Mary always felt that however many years she lived she should
never forget that first morning when her garden began to grow. Of
course, it did seem to begin to grow for her that morning. When Dickon
began to clear places to plant seeds, she remembered what Basil had sung
at her when he wanted to tease her.

"Are there any flowers that look like bells?" she inquired.

"Lilies o' th' valley does," he answered, digging away with the trowel,
"an' there's Canterbury bells, an' campanulas."

"Let us plant some," said Mary.

"There's lilies o' th' valley here already; I saw 'em. They'll have
growed too close an' we'll have to separate 'em, but there's plenty. Th'
other ones takes two years to bloom from seed, but I can bring you some
bits o' plants from our cottage garden. Why does tha' want 'em?"

Then Mary told him about Basil and his brothers and sisters in India and
of how she had hated them and of their calling her "Mistress Mary Quite
Contrary."

"They used to dance round and sing at me. They sang--

          'Mistress Mary, quite contrary,
              How does your garden grow?
           With silver bells, and cockle shells,
              And marigolds all in a row.'

I just remembered it and it made me wonder if there were really flowers
like silver bells."

She frowned a little and gave her trowel a rather spiteful dig into the
earth.

"I wasn't as contrary as they were."

But Dickon laughed.

"Eh!" he said, and as he crumbled the rich black soil she saw he was
sniffing up the scent of it, "there doesn't seem to be no need for no
one to be contrary when there's flowers an' such like, an' such lots o'
friendly wild things runnin' about makin' homes for themselves, or
buildin' nests an' singin' an' whistlin', does there?"

Mary, kneeling by him holding the seeds, looked at him and stopped
frowning.

"Dickon," she said. "You are as nice as Martha said you were. I like
you, and you make the fifth person. I never thought I should like five
people."

Dickon sat up on his heels as Martha did when she was polishing the
grate. He did look funny and delightful, Mary thought, with his round
blue eyes and red cheeks and happy looking turned-up nose.

"Only five folk as tha' likes?" he said. "Who is th' other four?"

"Your mother and Martha," Mary checked them off on her fingers, "and the
robin and Ben Weatherstaff."

Dickon laughed so that he was obliged to stifle the sound by putting his
arm over his mouth.

"I know tha' thinks I'm a queer lad," he said, "but I think tha' art th'
queerest little lass I ever saw."

Then Mary did a strange thing. She leaned forward and asked him a
question she had never dreamed of asking any one before. And she tried
to ask it in Yorkshire because that was his language, and in India a
native was always pleased if you knew his speech.

"Does tha' like me?" she said.

"Eh!" he answered heartily, "that I does. I likes thee wonderful, an' so
does th' robin, I do believe!"

"That's two, then," said Mary. "That's two for me."

And then they began to work harder than ever and more joyfully. Mary was
startled and sorry when she heard the big clock in the courtyard strike
the hour of her midday dinner.

"I shall have to go," she said mournfully. "And you will have to go too,
won't you?"

Dickon grinned.

"My dinner's easy to carry about with me," he said. "Mother always lets
me put a bit o' somethin' in my pocket."

He picked up his coat from the grass and brought out of a pocket a lumpy
little bundle tied up in a quiet clean, coarse, blue and white
handkerchief. It held two thick pieces of bread with a slice of
something laid between them.

"It's oftenest naught but bread," he said, "but I've got a fine slice o'
fat bacon with it to-day."

Mary thought it looked a queer dinner, but he seemed ready to enjoy it.

"Run on an' get thy victuals," he said. "I'll be done with mine first.
I'll get some more work done before I start back home."

He sat down with his back against a tree.

"I'll call th' robin up," he said, "and give him th' rind o' th' bacon
to peck at. They likes a bit o' fat wonderful."

Mary could scarcely bear to leave him. Suddenly it seemed as if he might
be a sort of wood fairy who might be gone when she came into the garden
again. He seemed too good to be true. She went slowly half-way to the
door in the wall and then she stopped and went back.

"Whatever happens, you--you never would tell?" she said.

His poppy-colored cheeks were distended with his first big bite of bread
and bacon, but he managed to smile encouragingly.

"If tha' was a missel thrush an' showed me where thy nest was, does tha'
think I'd tell any one? Not me," he said. "Tha' art as safe as a missel
thrush."

And she was quite sure she was.




CHAPTER XII

"MIGHT I HAVE A BIT OF EARTH?"


Mary ran so fast that she was rather out of breath when she reached her
room. Her hair was ruffled on her forehead and her cheeks were bright
pink. Her dinner was waiting on the table, and Martha was waiting near
it.

"Tha's a bit late," she said. "Where has tha' been?"

"I've seen Dickon!" said Mary. "I've seen Dickon!"

"I knew he'd come," said Martha exultantly. "How does tha' like him?"

"I think--I think he's beautiful!" said Mary in a determined voice.

Martha looked rather taken aback but she looked pleased, too.

"Well," she said, "he's th' best lad as ever was born, but us never
thought he was handsome. His nose turns up too much."

"I like it to turn up," said Mary.

"An' his eyes is so round," said Martha, a trifle doubtful. "Though
they're a nice color."

"I like them round," said Mary. "And they are exactly the color of the
sky over the moor."

Martha beamed with satisfaction.

"Mother says he made 'em that color with always lookin' up at th' birds
an' th' clouds. But he has got a big mouth, hasn't he, now?"

"I love his big mouth," said Mary obstinately. "I wish mine were just
like it."

Martha chuckled delightedly.

"It'd look rare an' funny in thy bit of a face," she said. "But I knowed
it would be that way when tha' saw him. How did tha' like th' seeds an'
th' garden tools?"

"How did you know he brought them?" asked Mary.

"Eh! I never thought of him not bringin' 'em. He'd be sure to bring 'em
if they was in Yorkshire. He's such a trusty lad."

Mary was afraid that she might begin to ask difficult questions, but she
did not. She was very much interested in the seeds and gardening tools,
and there was only one moment when Mary was frightened. This was when
she began to ask where the flowers were to be planted.

"Who did tha' ask about it?" she inquired.

"I haven't asked anybody yet," said Mary, hesitating.

"Well, I wouldn't ask th' head gardener. He's too grand, Mr. Roach is."

"I've never seen him," said Mary. "I've only seen under-gardeners and
Ben Weatherstaff."

"If I was you, I'd ask Ben Weatherstaff," advised Martha. "He's not half
as bad as he looks, for all he's so crabbed. Mr. Craven lets him do what
he likes because he was here when Mrs. Craven was alive, an' he used to
make her laugh. She liked him. Perhaps he'd find you a corner somewhere
out o' the way."

"If it was out of the way and no one wanted it, no one _could_ mind my
having it, could they?" Mary said anxiously.

"There wouldn't be no reason," answered Martha. "You wouldn't do no
harm."

Mary ate her dinner as quickly as she could and when she rose from the
table she was going to run to her room to put on her hat again, but
Martha stopped her.

"I've got somethin' to tell you," she said. "I thought I'd let you eat
your dinner first. Mr. Craven came back this mornin' and I think he
wants to see you."

Mary turned quite pale.

"Oh!" she said. "Why! Why! He didn't want to see me when I came. I heard
Pitcher say he didn't."

"Well," explained Martha, "Mrs. Medlock says it's because o' mother. She
was walkin' to Thwaite village an' she met him. She'd never spoke to him
before, but Mrs. Craven had been to our cottage two or three times. He'd
forgot, but mother hadn't an' she made bold to stop him. I don't know
what she said to him about you but she said somethin' as put him in th'
mind to see you before he goes away again, to-morrow."

"Oh!" cried Mary, "is he going away to-morrow? I am so glad!"

"He's goin' for a long time. He mayn't come back till autumn or winter.
He's goin' to travel in foreign places. He's always doin' it."

"Oh! I'm so glad--so glad!" said Mary thankfully.

If he did not come back until winter, or even autumn, there would be
time to watch the secret garden come alive. Even if he found out then
and took it away from her she would have had that much at least.

"When do you think he will want to see--"

She did not finish the sentence, because the door opened, and Mrs.
Medlock walked in. She had on her best black dress and cap, and her
collar was fastened with a large brooch with a picture of a man's face
on it. It was a colored photograph of Mr. Medlock who had died years
ago, and she always wore it when she was dressed up. She looked nervous
and excited.

"Your hair's rough," she said quickly. "Go and brush it. Martha, help
her to slip on her best dress. Mr. Craven sent me to bring her to him in
his study."

All the pink left Mary's cheeks. Her heart began to thump and she felt
herself changing into a stiff, plain, silent child again. She did not
even answer Mrs. Medlock, but turned and walked into her bedroom,
followed by Martha. She said nothing while her dress was changed, and
her hair brushed, and after she was quite tidy she followed Mrs. Medlock
down the corridors, in silence. What was there for her to say? She was
obliged to go and see Mr. Craven and he would not like her, and she
would not like him. She knew what he would think of her.

She was taken to a part of the house she had not been into before. At
last Mrs. Medlock knocked at a door, and when some one said, "Come in,"
they entered the room together. A man was sitting in an armchair before
the fire, and Mrs. Medlock spoke to him.

"This is Miss Mary, sir," she said.

"You can go and leave her here. I will ring for you when I want you to
take her away," said Mr. Craven.

When she went out and closed the door, Mary could only stand waiting, a
plain little thing, twisting her thin hands together. She could see that
the man in the chair was not so much a hunchback as a man with high,
rather crooked shoulders, and he had black hair streaked with white. He
turned his head over his high shoulders and spoke to her.

"Come here!" he said.

Mary went to him.

He was not ugly. His face would have been handsome if it had not been so
miserable. He looked as if the sight of her worried and fretted him and
as if he did not know what in the world to do with her.

"Are you well?" he asked.

"Yes," answered Mary.

"Do they take good care of you?"

"Yes."

He rubbed his forehead fretfully as he looked her over.

"You are very thin," he said.

"I am getting fatter," Mary answered in what she knew was her stiffest
way.

What an unhappy face he had! His black eyes seemed as if they scarcely
saw her, as if they were seeing something else, and he could hardly keep
his thoughts upon her.

"I forgot you," he said. "How could I remember you? I intended to send
you a governess or a nurse, or some one of that sort, but I forgot."

"Please," began Mary. "Please--" and then the lump in her throat choked
her.

"What do you want to say?" he inquired.

"I am--I am too big for a nurse," said Mary. "And please--please don't
make me have a governess yet."

He rubbed his forehead again and stared at her.

"That was what the Sowerby woman said," he muttered absent-mindedly.

Then Mary gathered a scrap of courage.

"Is she--is she Martha's mother?" she stammered.

"Yes, I think so," he replied.

"She knows about children," said Mary. "She has twelve. She knows."

He seemed to rouse himself.

"What do you want to do?"

"I want to play out of doors," Mary answered, hoping that her voice did
not tremble. "I never liked it in India. It makes me hungry here, and I
am getting fatter."

He was watching her.

"Mrs. Sowerby said it would do you good. Perhaps it will," he said. "She
thought you had better get stronger before you had a governess."

"It makes me feel strong when I play and the wind comes over the moor,"
argued Mary.

"Where do you play?" he asked next.

"Everywhere," gasped Mary. "Martha's mother sent me a skipping-rope. I
skip and run--and I look about to see if things are beginning to stick
up out of the earth. I don't do any harm."

"Don't look so frightened," he said in a worried voice. "You could not
do any harm, a child like you! You may do what you like."

Mary put her hand up to her throat because she was afraid he might see
the excited lump which she felt jump into it. She came a step nearer to
him.

"May I?" she said tremulously.

Her anxious little face seemed to worry him more than ever.

"Don't look so frightened," he exclaimed. "Of course you may. I am your
guardian, though I am a poor one for any child. I cannot give you time
or attention. I am too ill, and wretched and distracted; but I wish you
to be happy and comfortable. I don't know anything about children, but
Mrs. Medlock is to see that you have all you need. I sent for you to-day
because Mrs. Sowerby said I ought to see you. Her daughter had talked
about you. She thought you needed fresh air and freedom and running
about."

"She knows all about children," Mary said again in spite of herself.

"She ought to," said Mr. Craven. "I thought her rather bold to stop me
on the moor, but she said--Mrs. Craven had been kind to her." It seemed
hard for him to speak his dead wife's name. "She is a respectable woman.
Now I have seen you I think she said sensible things. Play out of doors
as much as you like. It's a big place and you may go where you like and
amuse yourself as you like. Is there anything you want?" as if a sudden
thought had struck him. "Do you want toys, books, dolls?"

"Might I," quavered Mary, "might I have a bit of earth?"

In her eagerness she did not realize how queer the words would sound and
that they were not the ones she had meant to say. Mr. Craven looked
quite startled.

"Earth!" he repeated. "What do you mean?"

"To plant seeds in--to make things grow--to see them come alive," Mary
faltered.

He gazed at her a moment and then passed his hand quickly over his
eyes.

"Do you--care about gardens so much," he said slowly.

"I didn't know about them in India," said Mary. "I was always ill and
tired and it was too hot. I sometimes made little beds in the sand and
stuck flowers in them. But here it is different."

Mr. Craven got up and began to walk slowly across the room.

"A bit of earth," he said to himself, and Mary thought that somehow she
must have reminded him of something. When he stopped and spoke to her
his dark eyes looked almost soft and kind.

"You can have as much earth as you want," he said. "You remind me of
some one else who loved the earth and things that grow. When you see a
bit of earth you want," with something like a smile, "take it, child,
and make it come alive."

"May I take it from anywhere--if it's not wanted?"

"Anywhere," he answered. "There! You must go now, I am tired." He
touched the bell to call Mrs. Medlock. "Good-by. I shall be away all
summer."

Mrs. Medlock came so quickly that Mary thought she must have been
waiting in the corridor.

"Mrs. Medlock," Mr. Craven said to her, "now I have seen the child I
understand what Mrs. Sowerby meant. She must be less delicate before she
begins lessons. Give her simple, healthy food. Let her run wild in the
garden. Don't look after her too much. She needs liberty and fresh air
and romping about. Mrs. Sowerby is to come and see her now and then and
she may sometimes go to the cottage."

Mrs. Medlock looked pleased. She was relieved to hear that she need not
"look after" Mary too much. She had felt her a tiresome charge and had
indeed seen as little of her as she dared. In addition to this she was
fond of Martha's mother.

"Thank you, sir," she said. "Susan Sowerby and me went to school
together and she's as sensible and good-hearted a woman as you'd find in
a day's walk. I never had any children myself and she's had twelve, and
there never was healthier or better ones. Miss Mary can get no harm from
them. I'd always take Susan Sowerby's advice about children myself.
She's what you might call healthy-minded--if you understand me."

"I understand," Mr. Craven answered. "Take Miss Mary away now and send
Pitcher to me."

When Mrs. Medlock left her at the end of her own corridor Mary flew back
to her room. She found Martha waiting there. Martha had, in fact,
hurried back after she had removed the dinner service.

"I can have my garden!" cried Mary. "I may have it where I like! I am
not going to have a governess for a long time! Your mother is coming to
see me and I may go to your cottage! He says a little girl like me could
not do any harm and I may do what I like--anywhere!"

"Eh!" said Martha delightedly, "that was nice of him wasn't it?"

"Martha," said Mary solemnly, "he is really a nice man, only his face is
so miserable and his forehead is all drawn together."

She ran as quickly as she could to the garden. She had been away so much
longer than she had thought she should and she knew Dickon would have to
set out early on his five-mile walk. When she slipped through the door
under the ivy, she saw he was not working where she had left him. The
gardening tools were laid together under a tree. She ran to them,
looking all round the place, but there was no Dickon to be seen. He had
gone away and the secret garden was empty--except for the robin who had
just flown across the wall and sat on a standard rose-bush watching
her.

"He's gone," she said wofully. "Oh! was he--was he--was he only a wood
fairy?"

Something white fastened to the standard rose-bush caught her eye. It
was a piece of paper--in fact, it was a piece of the letter she had
printed for Martha to send to Dickon. It was fastened on the bush with a
long thorn, and in a minute she knew Dickon had left it there. There
were some roughly printed letters on it and a sort of picture. At first
she could not tell what it was. Then she saw it was meant for a nest
with a bird sitting on it. Underneath were the printed letters and they
said:

"I will cum bak."




CHAPTER XIII

"I AM COLIN"


Mary took the picture back to the house when she went to her supper and
she showed it to Martha.

"Eh!" said Martha with great pride. "I never knew our Dickon was as
clever as that. That there's a picture of a missel thrush on her nest,
as large as life an' twice as natural."

Then Mary knew Dickon had meant the picture to be a message. He had
meant that she might be sure he would keep her secret. Her garden was
her nest and she was like a missel thrush. Oh, how she did like that
queer, common boy!

She hoped he would come back the very next day and she fell asleep
looking forward to the morning.

But you never know what the weather will do in Yorkshire, particularly
in the springtime. She was awakened in the night by the sound of rain
beating with heavy drops against her window. It was pouring down in
torrents and the wind was "wuthering" round the corners and in the
chimneys of the huge old house. Mary sat up in bed and felt miserable
and angry.

"The rain is as contrary as I ever was," she said. "It came because it
knew I did not want it."

She threw herself back on her pillow and buried her face. She did not
cry, but she lay and hated the sound of the heavily beating rain, she
hated the wind and its "wuthering." She could not go to sleep again. The
mournful sound kept her awake because she felt mournful herself. If she
had felt happy it would probably have lulled her to sleep. How it
"wuthered" and how the big rain-drops poured down and beat against the
pane!

"It sounds just like a person lost on the moor and wandering on and on
crying," she said.

       *       *       *       *       *

She had been lying awake turning from side to side for about an hour,
when suddenly something made her sit up in bed and turn her head toward
the door listening. She listened and she listened.

"It isn't the wind now," she said in a loud whisper. "That isn't the
wind. It is different. It is that crying I heard before."

The door of her room was ajar and the sound came down the corridor, a
far-off faint sound of fretful crying. She listened for a few minutes
and each minute she became more and more sure. She felt as if she must
find out what it was. It seemed even stranger than the secret garden and
the buried key. Perhaps the fact that she was in a rebellious mood made
her bold. She put her foot out of bed and stood on the floor.

"I am going to find out what it is," she said. "Everybody is in bed and
I don't care about Mrs. Medlock--I don't care!"

There was a candle by her bedside and she took it up and went softly out
of the room. The corridor looked very long and dark, but she was too
excited to mind that. She thought she remembered the corners she must
turn to find the short corridor with the door covered with tapestry--the
one Mrs. Medlock had come through the day she lost herself. The sound
had come up that passage. So she went on with her dim light, almost
feeling her way, her heart beating so loud that she fancied she could
hear it. The far-off faint crying went on and led her. Sometimes it
stopped for a moment or so and then began again. Was this the right
corner to turn? She stopped and thought. Yes it was. Down this passage
and then to the left, and then up two broad steps, and then to the right
again. Yes, there was the tapestry door.

She pushed it open very gently and closed it behind her, and she stood
in the corridor and could hear the crying quite plainly, though it was
not loud. It was on the other side of the wall at her left and a few
yards farther on there was a door. She could see a glimmer of light
coming from beneath it. The Someone was crying in that room, and it was
quite a young Someone.

So she walked to the door and pushed it open, and there she was standing
in the room!

It was a big room with ancient, handsome furniture in it. There was a
low fire glowing faintly on the hearth and a night light burning by the
side of a carved four-posted bed hung with brocade, and on the bed was
lying a boy, crying fretfully.

Mary wondered if she was in a real place or if she had fallen asleep
again and was dreaming without knowing it.

The boy had a sharp, delicate face the color of ivory and he seemed to
have eyes too big for it. He had also a lot of hair which tumbled over
his forehead in heavy locks and made his thin face seem smaller. He
looked like a boy who had been ill, but he was crying more as if he were
tired and cross than as if he were in pain.

Mary stood near the door with her candle in her hand, holding her
breath. Then she crept across the room, and as she drew nearer the
light attracted the boy's attention and he turned his head on his pillow
and stared at her, his gray eyes opening so wide that they seemed
immense.

[Illustration: "'WHO ARE YOU?--ARE YOU A GHOST?'"--_Page 157_]

"Who are you?" he said at last in a half-frightened whisper. "Are you a
ghost?"

"No, I am not," Mary answered, her own whisper sounding half frightened.
"Are you one?"

He stared and stared and stared. Mary could not help noticing what
strange eyes he had. They were agate gray and they looked too big for
his face because they had black lashes all round them.

"No," he replied after waiting a moment or so. "I am Colin."

"Who is Colin?" she faltered.

"I am Colin Craven. Who are you?"

"I am Mary Lennox. Mr. Craven is my uncle."

"He is my father," said the boy.

"Your father!" gasped Mary. "No one ever told me he had a boy! Why
didn't they?"

"Come here," he said, still keeping his strange eyes fixed on her with
an anxious expression.

She came close to the bed and he put out his hand and touched her.

"You are real, aren't you?" he said. "I have such real dreams very
often. You might be one of them."

Mary had slipped on a woolen wrapper before she left her room and she
put a piece of it between his fingers.

"Rub that and see how thick and warm it is," she said. "I will pinch you
a little if you like, to show you how real I am. For a minute I thought
you might be a dream too."

"Where did you come from?" he asked.

"From my own room. The wind wuthered so I couldn't go to sleep and I
heard some one crying and wanted to find out who it was. What were you
crying for?"

"Because I couldn't go to sleep either and my head ached. Tell me your
name again."

"Mary Lennox. Did no one ever tell you I had come to live here?"

He was still fingering the fold of her wrapper, but he began to look a
little more as if he believed in her reality.

"No," he answered. "They daren't."

"Why?" asked Mary.

"Because I should have been afraid you would see me. I won't let people
see me and talk me over."

"Why?" Mary asked again, feeling more mystified every moment.

"Because I am like this always, ill and having to lie down. My father
won't let people talk me over either. The servants are not allowed to
speak about me. If I live I may be a hunchback, but I shan't live. My
father hates to think I may be like him."

"Oh, what a queer house this is!" Mary said. "What a queer house!
Everything is a kind of secret. Rooms are locked up and gardens are
locked up--and you! Have you been locked up?"

"No. I stay in this room because I don't want to be moved out of it. It
tires me too much."

"Does your father come and see you?" Mary ventured.

"Sometimes. Generally when I am asleep. He doesn't want to see me."

"Why?" Mary could not help asking again.

A sort of angry shadow passed over the boy's face.

"My mother died when I was born and it makes him wretched to look at me.
He thinks I don't know, but I've heard people talking. He almost hates
me."

"He hates the garden, because she died," said Mary half speaking to
herself.

"What garden?" the boy asked.

"Oh! just--just a garden she used to like," Mary stammered. "Have you
been here always?"

"Nearly always. Sometimes I have been taken to places at the seaside,
but I won't stay because people stare at me. I used to wear an iron
thing to keep my back straight, but a grand doctor came from London to
see me and said it was stupid. He told them to take it off and keep me
out in the fresh air. I hate fresh air and I don't want to go out."

"I didn't when first I came here," said Mary. "Why do you keep looking
at me like that?"

"Because of the dreams that are so real," he answered rather fretfully.
"Sometimes when I open my eyes I don't believe I'm awake."

"We're both awake," said Mary. She glanced round the room with its high
ceiling and shadowy corners and dim firelight. "It looks quite like a
dream, and it's the middle of the night, and everybody in the house is
asleep--everybody but us. We are wide awake."

"I don't want it to be a dream," the boy said restlessly.

Mary thought of something all at once.

"If you don't like people to see you," she began, "do you want me to go
away?"

He still held the fold of her wrapper and he gave it a little pull.

"No," he said. "I should be sure you were a dream if you went. If you
are real, sit down on that big footstool and talk. I want to hear about
you."

Mary put down her candle on the table near the bed and sat down on the
cushioned stool. She did not want to go away at all. She wanted to stay
in the mysterious hidden-away room and talk to the mysterious boy.

"What do you want me to tell you?" she said.

He wanted to know how long she had been at Misselthwaite; he wanted to
know which corridor her room was on; he wanted to know what she had been
doing; if she disliked the moor as he disliked it; where she had lived
before she came to Yorkshire. She answered all these questions and many
more and he lay back on his pillow and listened. He made her tell him a
great deal about India and about her voyage across the ocean. She found
out that because he had been an invalid he had not learned things as
other children had. One of his nurses had taught him to read when he was
quite little and he was always reading and looking at pictures in
splendid books.

Though his father rarely saw him when he was awake, he was given all
sorts of wonderful things to amuse himself with. He never seemed to have
been amused, however. He could have anything he asked for and was never
made to do anything he did not like to do.

"Every one is obliged to do what pleases me," he said indifferently. "It
makes me ill to be angry. No one believes I shall live to grow up."

He said it as if he was so accustomed to the idea that it had ceased to
matter to him at all. He seemed to like the sound of Mary's voice. As
she went on talking he listened in a drowsy, interested way. Once or
twice she wondered if he were not gradually falling into a doze. But at
last he asked a question which opened up a new subject.

"How old are you?" he asked.

"I am ten," answered Mary, forgetting herself for the moment, "and so
are you."

"How do you know that?" he demanded in a surprised voice.

"Because when you were born the garden door was locked and the key was
buried. And it has been locked for ten years."

Colin half sat up, turning toward her, leaning on his elbows.

"What garden door was locked? Who did it? Where was the key buried?" he
exclaimed as if he were suddenly very much interested.

"It--it was the garden Mr. Craven hates," said Mary nervously. "He
locked the door. No one--no one knew where he buried the key."

"What sort of a garden is it?" Colin persisted eagerly.

"No one has been allowed to go into it for ten years," was Mary's
careful answer.

But it was too late to be careful. He was too much like herself. He too
had had nothing to think about and the idea of a hidden garden attracted
him as it had attracted her. He asked question after question. Where was
it? Had she never looked for the door? Had she never asked the
gardeners?

"They won't talk about it," said Mary. "I think they have been told not
to answer questions."

"I would make them," said Colin.

"Could you?" Mary faltered, beginning to feel frightened. If he could
make people answer questions, who knew what might happen!

"Every one is obliged to please me. I told you that," he said. "If I
were to live, this place would sometime belong to me. They all know
that. I would make them tell me."

Mary had not known that she herself had been spoiled, but she could see
quite plainly that this mysterious boy had been. He thought that the
whole world belonged to him. How peculiar he was and how coolly he spoke
of not living.

"Do you think you won't live?" she asked, partly because she was
curious and partly in hope of making him forget the garden.

"I don't suppose I shall," he answered as indifferently as he had spoken
before. "Ever since I remember anything I have heard people say I
shan't. At first they thought I was too little to understand and now
they think I don't hear. But I do. My doctor is my father's cousin. He
is quite poor and if I die he will have all Misselthwaite when my father
is dead. I should think he wouldn't want me to live."

"Do you want to live?" inquired Mary.

"No," he answered, in a cross, tired fashion. "But I don't want to die.
When I feel ill I lie here and think about it until I cry and cry."

"I have heard you crying three times," Mary said, "but I did not know
who it was. Were you crying about that?" She did so want him to forget
the garden.

"I dare say," he answered. "Let us talk about something else. Talk about
that garden. Don't you want to see it?"

"Yes," answered Mary, in quite a low voice.

"I do," he went on persistently. "I don't think I ever really wanted to
see anything before, but I want to see that garden. I want the key dug
up. I want the door unlocked. I would let them take me there in my
chair. That would be getting fresh air. I am going to make them open
the door."

He had become quite excited and his strange eyes began to shine like
stars and looked more immense than ever.

"They have to please me," he said. "I will make them take me there and I
will let you go, too."

Mary's hands clutched each other. Everything would be
spoiled--everything! Dickon would never come back. She would never again
feel like a missel thrush with a safe-hidden nest.

"Oh, don't--don't--don't--don't do that!" she cried out.

He stared as if he thought she had gone crazy!

"Why?" he exclaimed. "You said you wanted to see it."

"I do," she answered almost with a sob in her throat, "but if you make
them open the door and take you in like that it will never be a secret
again."

He leaned still farther forward.

"A secret," he said. "What do you mean? Tell me."

Mary's words almost tumbled over one another.

"You see--you see," she panted, "if no one knows but ourselves--if there
was a door, hidden somewhere under the ivy--if there was--and we could
find it; and if we could slip through it together and shut it behind
us, and no one knew any one was inside and we called it our garden and
pretended that--that we were missel thrushes and it was our nest, and if
we played there almost every day and dug and planted seeds and made it
all come alive--"

"Is it dead?" he interrupted her.

"It soon will be if no one cares for it," she went on. "The bulbs will
live but the roses--"

He stopped her again as excited as she was herself.

"What are bulbs?" he put in quickly.

"They are daffodils and lilies and snowdrops. They are working in the
earth now--pushing up pale green points because the spring is coming."

"Is the spring coming?" he said. "What is it like? You don't see it in
rooms if you are ill."

"It is the sun shining on the rain and the rain falling on the sunshine,
and things pushing up and working under the earth," said Mary. "If the
garden was a secret and we could get into it we could watch the things
grow bigger every day, and see how many roses are alive. Don't you see?
Oh, don't you see how much nicer it would be if it was a secret?"

He dropped back on his pillow and lay there with an odd expression on
his face.

"I never had a secret," he said, "except that one about not living to
grow up. They don't know I know that, so it is a sort of secret. But I
like this kind better."

"If you won't make them take you to the garden," pleaded Mary,
"perhaps--I feel almost sure I can find out how to get in sometime. And
then--if the doctor wants you to go out in your chair, and if you can
always do what you want to do, perhaps--perhaps we might find some boy
who would push you, and we could go alone and it would always be a
secret garden."

"I should--like--that," he said very slowly, his eyes looking dreamy. "I
should like that. I should not mind fresh air in a secret garden."

Mary began to recover her breath and feel safer because the idea of
keeping the secret seemed to please him. She felt almost sure that if
she kept on talking and could make him see the garden in his mind as she
had seen it he would like it so much that he could not bear to think
that everybody might tramp into it when they chose.

"I'll tell you what I _think_ it would be like, if we could go into it,"
she said. "It has been shut up so long things have grown into a tangle
perhaps."

He lay quite still and listened while she went on talking about the
roses which _might_ have clambered from tree to tree and hung
down--about the many birds which _might_ have built their nests there
because it was so safe. And then she told him about the robin and Ben
Weatherstaff, and there was so much to tell about the robin and it was
so easy and safe to talk about it that she ceased to feel afraid. The
robin pleased him so much that he smiled until he looked almost
beautiful, and at first Mary had thought that he was even plainer than
herself, with his big eyes and heavy locks of hair.

"I did not know birds could be like that," he said. "But if you stay in
a room you never see things. What a lot of things you know. I feel as if
you had been inside that garden."

She did not know what to say, so she did not say anything. He evidently
did not expect an answer and the next moment he gave her a surprise.

"I am going to let you look at something," he said. "Do you see that
rose-colored silk curtain hanging on the wall over the mantel-piece?"

Mary had not noticed it before, but she looked up and saw it. It was a
curtain of soft silk hanging over what seemed to be some picture.

"Yes," she answered.

"There is a cord hanging from it," said Colin. "Go and pull it."

Mary got up, much mystified, and found the cord. When she pulled it the
silk curtain ran back on rings and when it ran back it uncovered a
picture. It was the picture of a girl with a laughing face. She had
bright hair tied up with a blue ribbon and her gay, lovely eyes were
exactly like Colin's unhappy ones, agate gray and looking twice as big
as they really were because of the black lashes all round them.

"She is my mother," said Colin complainingly. "I don't see why she died.
Sometimes I hate her for doing it."

"How queer!" said Mary.

"If she had lived I believe I should not have been ill always," he
grumbled. "I dare say I should have lived, too. And my father would not
have hated to look at me. I dare say I should have had a strong back.
Draw the curtain again."

Mary did as she was told and returned to her footstool.

"She is much prettier than you," she said, "but her eyes are just like
yours--at least they are the same shape and color. Why is the curtain
drawn over her?"

He moved uncomfortably.

"I made them do it," he said. "Sometimes I don't like to see her looking
at me. She smiles too much when I am ill and miserable. Besides, she is
mine and I don't want every one to see her."

There were a few moments of silence and then Mary spoke.

"What would Mrs. Medlock do if she found out that I had been here?" she
inquired.

"She would do as I told her to do," he answered. "And I should tell her
that I wanted you to come here and talk to me every day. I am glad you
came."

"So am I," said Mary. "I will come as often as I can, but"--she
hesitated--"I shall have to look every day for the garden door."

"Yes, you must," said Colin, "and you can tell me about it afterward."

He lay thinking a few minutes, as he had done before, and then he spoke
again.

"I think you shall be a secret, too," he said. "I will not tell them
until they find out. I can always send the nurse out of the room and say
that I want to be by myself. Do you know Martha?"

"Yes, I know her very well," said Mary. "She waits on me."

He nodded his head toward the outer corridor.

"She is the one who is asleep in the other room. The nurse went away
yesterday to stay all night with her sister and she always makes Martha
attend to me when she wants to go out. Martha shall tell you when to
come here."

Then Mary understood Martha's troubled look when she had asked
questions about the crying.

"Martha knew about you all the time?" she said.

"Yes; she often attends to me. The nurse likes to get away from me and
then Martha comes."

"I have been here a long time," said Mary. "Shall I go away now? Your
eyes look sleepy."

"I wish I could go to sleep before you leave me," he said rather shyly.

"Shut your eyes," said Mary, drawing her footstool closer, "and I will
do what my Ayah used to do in India. I will pat your hand and stroke it
and sing something quite low."

"I should like that perhaps," he said drowsily.

Somehow she was sorry for him and did not want him to lie awake, so she
leaned against the bed and began to stroke and pat his hand and sing a
very low little chanting song in Hindustani.

"That is nice," he said more drowsily still, and she went on chanting
and stroking, but when she looked at him again his black lashes were
lying close against his cheeks, for his eyes were shut and he was fast
asleep. So she got up softly, took her candle and crept away without
making a sound.




CHAPTER XIV

A YOUNG RAJAH


The moor was hidden in mist when the morning came and the rain had not
stopped pouring down. There could be no going out of doors. Martha was
so busy that Mary had no opportunity of talking to her, but in the
afternoon she asked her to come and sit with her in the nursery. She
came bringing the stocking she was always knitting when she was doing
nothing else.

"What's the matter with thee?" she asked as soon as they sat down. "Tha'
looks as if tha'd somethin' to say."

"I have. I have found out what the crying was," said Mary.

Martha let her knitting drop on her knee and gazed at her with startled
eyes.

"Tha' hasn't!" she exclaimed. "Never!"

"I heard it in the night," Mary went on. "And I got up and went to see
where it came from. It was Colin. I found him."

Martha's face became red with fright.

"Eh! Miss Mary!" she said half crying. "Tha' shouldn't have done
it--tha' shouldn't! Tha'll get me in trouble. I never told thee nothin'
about him--but tha'll get me in trouble. I shall lose my place and
what'll mother do!"

"You won't lose your place," said Mary. "He was glad I came. We talked
and talked and he said he was glad I came."

"Was he?" cried Martha. "Art tha' sure? Tha' doesn't know what he's like
when anything vexes him. He's a big lad to cry like a baby, but when
he's in a passion he'll fair scream just to frighten us. He knows us
daren't call our souls our own."

"He wasn't vexed," said Mary. "I asked him if I should go away and he
made me stay. He asked me questions and I sat on a big footstool and
talked to him about India and about the robin and gardens. He wouldn't
let me go. He let me see his mother's picture. Before I left him I sang
him to sleep."

Martha fairly gasped with amazement.

"I can scarcely believe thee!" she protested. "It's as if tha'd walked
straight into a lion's den. If he'd been like he is most times he'd have
throwed himself into one of his tantrums and roused th' house. He won't
let strangers look at him."

"He let me look at him. I looked at him all the time and he looked at
me. We stared!" said Mary.

"I don't know what to do!" cried agitated Martha. "If Mrs. Medlock finds
out, she'll think I broke orders and told thee and I shall be packed
back to mother."

"He is not going to tell Mrs. Medlock anything about it yet. It's to be
a sort of secret just at first," said Mary firmly. "And he says
everybody is obliged to do as he pleases."

"Aye, that's true enough--th' bad lad!" sighed Martha, wiping her
forehead with her apron.

"He says Mrs. Medlock must. And he wants me to come and talk to him
every day. And you are to tell me when he wants me."

"Me!" said Martha; "I shall lose my place--I shall for sure!"

"You can't if you are doing what he wants you to do and everybody is
ordered to obey him," Mary argued.

"Does tha' mean to say," cried Martha with wide open eyes, "that he was
nice to thee!"

"I think he almost liked me," Mary answered.

"Then tha' must have bewitched him!" decided Martha, drawing a long
breath.

"Do you mean Magic?" inquired Mary. "I've heard about Magic in India,
but I can't make it. I just went into his room and I was so surprised
to see him I stood and stared. And then he turned round and stared at
me. And he thought I was a ghost or a dream and I thought perhaps he
was. And it was so queer being there alone together in the middle of the
night and not knowing about each other. And we began to ask each other
questions. And when I asked him if I must go away he said I must not."

"Th' world's comin' to a end!" gasped Martha.

"What is the matter with him?" asked Mary.

"Nobody knows for sure and certain," said Martha. "Mr. Craven went off
his head like when he was born. Th' doctors thought he'd have to be put
in a 'sylum. It was because Mrs. Craven died like I told you. He
wouldn't set eyes on th' baby. He just raved and said it'd be another
hunchback like him and it'd better die."

"Is Colin a hunchback?" Mary asked. "He didn't look like one."

"He isn't yet," said Martha. "But he began all wrong. Mother said that
there was enough trouble and raging in th' house to set any child wrong.
They was afraid his back was weak an' they've always been takin' care of
it--keepin' him lyin' down and not lettin' him walk. Once they made him
wear a brace but he fretted so he was downright ill. Then a big doctor
came to see him an' made them take it off. He talked to th' other doctor
quite rough--in a polite way. He said there'd been too much medicine and
too much lettin' him have his own way."

"I think he's a very spoiled boy," said Mary.

"He's th' worst young nowt as ever was!" said Martha. "I won't say as he
hasn't been ill a good bit. He's had coughs an' colds that's nearly
killed him two or three times. Once he had rheumatic fever an' once he
had typhoid. Eh! Mrs. Medlock did get a fright then. He'd been out of
his head an' she was talkin' to th' nurse, thinkin' he didn't know
nothin', an' she said, 'He'll die this time sure enough, an' best thing
for him an' for everybody.' An' she looked at him an' there he was with
his big eyes open, starin' at her as sensible as she was herself. She
didn't know what'd happen but he just stared at her an' says, 'You give
me some water an' stop talkin'.'"

"Do you think he will die?" asked Mary.

"Mother says there's no reason why any child should live that gets no
fresh air an' doesn't do nothin' but lie on his back an' read
picture-books an' take medicine. He's weak and hates th' trouble o'
bein' taken out o' doors, an' he gets cold so easy he says it makes him
ill."

Mary sat and looked at the fire.

"I wonder," she said slowly, "if it would not do him good to go out into
a garden and watch things growing. It did me good."

"One of th' worst fits he ever had," said Martha, "was one time they
took him out where the roses is by the fountain. He'd been readin' in a
paper about people gettin' somethin' he called 'rose cold' an' he began
to sneeze an' said he'd got it an' then a new gardener as didn't know
th' rules passed by an' looked at him curious. He threw himself into a
passion an' he said he'd looked at him because he was going to be a
hunchback. He cried himself into a fever an' was ill all night."

"If he ever gets angry at me, I'll never go and see him again," said
Mary.

"He'll have thee if he wants thee," said Martha. "Tha' may as well know
that at th' start."

Very soon afterward a bell rang and she rolled up her knitting.

"I dare say th' nurse wants me to stay with him a bit," she said. "I
hope he's in a good temper."

She was out of the room about ten minutes and then she came back with a
puzzled expression.

"Well, tha' has bewitched him," she said. "He's up on his sofa with his
picture-books. He's told the nurse to stay away until six o'clock. I'm
to wait in the next room. Th' minute she was gone he called me to him
an' says, 'I want Mary Lennox to come and talk to me, and remember
you're not to tell any one.' You'd better go as quick as you can."

Mary was quite willing to go quickly. She did not want to see Colin as
much as she wanted to see Dickon, but she wanted to see him very much.

There was a bright fire on the hearth when she entered his room, and in
the daylight she saw it was a very beautiful room indeed. There were
rich colors in the rugs and hangings and pictures and books on the walls
which made it look glowing and comfortable even in spite of the gray sky
and falling rain. Colin looked rather like a picture himself. He was
wrapped in a velvet dressing-gown and sat against a big brocaded
cushion. He had a red spot on each cheek.

"Come in," he said. "I've been thinking about you all morning."

"I've been thinking about you, too," answered Mary. "You don't know how
frightened Martha is. She says Mrs. Medlock will think she told me about
you and then she will be sent away."

He frowned.

"Go and tell her to come here," he said. "She is in the next room."

Mary went and brought her back. Poor Martha was shaking in her shoes.
Colin was still frowning.

"Have you to do what I please or have you not?" he demanded.

"I have to do what you please, sir," Martha faltered, turning quite red.

"Has Medlock to do what I please?"

"Everybody has, sir," said Martha.

"Well, then, if I order you to bring Miss Mary to me, how can Medlock
send you away if she finds it out?"

"Please don't let her, sir," pleaded Martha.

"I'll send _her_ away if she dares to say a word about such a thing,"
said Master Craven grandly. "She wouldn't like that, I can tell you."

"Thank you, sir," bobbing a curtsy, "I want to do my duty, sir."

"What I want is your duty," said Colin more grandly still. "I'll take
care of you. Now go away."

When the door closed behind Martha, Colin found Mistress Mary gazing at
him as if he had set her wondering.

"Why do you look at me like that?" he asked her. "What are you thinking
about?"

"I am thinking about two things."

"What are they? Sit down and tell me."

"This is the first one," said Mary, seating herself on the big stool.
"Once in India I saw a boy who was a Rajah. He had rubies and emeralds
and diamonds stuck all over him. He spoke to his people just as you
spoke to Martha. Everybody had to do everything he told them--in a
minute. I think they would have been killed if they hadn't."

"I shall make you tell me about Rajahs presently," he said, "but first
tell me what the second thing was."

"I was thinking," said Mary, "how different you are from Dickon."

"Who is Dickon?" he said. "What a queer name!"

She might as well tell him, she thought. She could talk about Dickon
without mentioning the secret garden. She had liked to hear Martha talk
about him. Besides, she longed to talk about him. It would seem to bring
him nearer.

"He is Martha's brother. He is twelve years old," she explained. "He is
not like any one else in the world. He can charm foxes and squirrels and
birds just as the natives in India charm snakes. He plays a very soft
tune on a pipe and they come and listen."

There were some big books on a table at his side and he dragged one
suddenly toward him.

"There is a picture of a snake-charmer in this," he exclaimed. "Come and
look at it."

The book was a beautiful one with superb colored illustrations and he
turned to one of them.

"Can he do that?" he asked eagerly.

"He played on his pipe and they listened," Mary explained. "But he
doesn't call it Magic. He says it's because he lives on the moor so much
and he knows their ways. He says he feels sometimes as if he was a bird
or a rabbit himself, he likes them so. I think he asked the robin
questions. It seemed as if they talked to each other in soft chirps."

Colin lay back on his cushion and his eyes grew larger and larger and
the spots on his cheeks burned.

"Tell me some more about him," he said.

"He knows all about eggs and nests," Mary went on. "And he knows where
foxes and badgers and otters live. He keeps them secret so that other
boys won't find their holes and frighten them. He knows about everything
that grows or lives on the moor."

"Does he like the moor?" said Colin. "How can he when it's such a great,
bare, dreary place?"

"It's the most beautiful place," protested Mary. "Thousands of lovely
things grow on it and there are thousands of little creatures all busy
building nests and making holes and burrows and chippering or singing
or squeaking to each other. They are so busy and having such fun under
the earth or in the trees or heather. It's their world."

"How do you know all that?" said Colin, turning on his elbow to look at
her.

"I have never been there once, really," said Mary suddenly remembering.
"I only drove over it in the dark. I thought it was hideous. Martha told
me about it first and then Dickon. When Dickon talks about it you feel
as if you saw things and heard them and as if you were standing in the
heather with the sun shining and the gorse smelling like honey--and all
full of bees and butterflies."

"You never see anything if you are ill," said Colin restlessly. He
looked like a person listening to a new sound in the distance and
wondering what it was.

"You can't if you stay in a room," said Mary.

"I couldn't go on the moor," he said in a resentful tone.

Mary was silent for a minute and then she said something bold.

"You might--sometime."

He moved as if he were startled.

"Go on the moor! How could I? I am going to die."

"How do you know?" said Mary unsympathetically. She didn't like the way
he had of talking about dying. She did not feel very sympathetic. She
felt rather as if he almost boasted about it.

"Oh, I've heard it ever since I remember," he answered crossly. "They
are always whispering about it and thinking I don't notice. They wish I
would, too."

Mistress Mary felt quite contrary. She pinched her lips together.

"If they wished I would," she said, "I wouldn't. Who wishes you would?"

"The servants--and of course Dr. Craven because he would get
Misselthwaite and be rich instead of poor. He daren't say so, but he
always looks cheerful when I am worse. When I had typhoid fever his face
got quite fat. I think my father wishes it, too."

"I don't believe he does," said Mary quite obstinately.

That made Colin turn and look at her again.

"Don't you?" he said.

And then he lay back on his cushion and was still, as if he were
thinking. And there was quite a long silence. Perhaps they were both of
them thinking strange things children do not usually think of.

"I like the grand doctor from London, because he made them take the iron
thing off," said Mary at last. "Did he say you were going to die?"

"No."

"What did he say?"

"He didn't whisper," Colin answered. "Perhaps he knew I hated
whispering. I heard him say one thing quite aloud. He said, 'The lad
might live if he would make up his mind to it. Put him in the humor.' It
sounded as if he was in a temper."

"I'll tell you who would put you in the humor, perhaps," said Mary
reflecting. She felt as if she would like this thing to be settled one
way or the other. "I believe Dickon would. He's always talking about
live things. He never talks about dead things or things that are ill.
He's always looking up in the sky to watch birds flying--or looking down
at the earth to see something growing. He has such round blue eyes and
they are so wide open with looking about. And he laughs such a big laugh
with his wide mouth--and his cheeks are as red--as red as cherries."

She pulled her stool nearer to the sofa and her expression quite changed
at the remembrance of the wide curving mouth and wide open eyes.

"See here," she said. "Don't let us talk about dying; I don't like it.
Let us talk about living. Let us talk and talk about Dickon. And then we
will look at your pictures."

It was the best thing she could have said. To talk about Dickon meant to
talk about the moor and about the cottage and the fourteen people who
lived in it on sixteen shillings a week--and the children who got fat on
the moor grass like the wild ponies. And about Dickon's mother--and the
skipping-rope--and the moor with the sun on it--and about pale green
points sticking up out of the black sod. And it was all so alive that
Mary talked more than she had ever talked before--and Colin both talked
and listened as he had never done either before. And they both began to
laugh over nothings as children will when they are happy together. And
they laughed so that in the end they were making as much noise as if
they had been two ordinary healthy natural ten-year-old
creatures--instead of a hard, little, unloving girl and a sickly boy who
believed that he was going to die.

They enjoyed themselves so much that they forgot the pictures and they
forgot about the time. They had been laughing quite loudly over Ben
Weatherstaff and his robin and Colin was actually sitting up as if he
had forgotten about his weak back when he suddenly remembered
something.

"Do you know there is one thing we have never once thought of," he said.
"We are cousins."

It seemed so queer that they had talked so much and never remembered
this simple thing that they laughed more than ever, because they had got
into the humor to laugh at anything. And in the midst of the fun the
door opened and in walked Dr. Craven and Mrs. Medlock.

Dr. Craven started in actual alarm and Mrs. Medlock almost fell back
because he had accidentally bumped against her.

"Good Lord!" exclaimed poor Mrs. Medlock, with her eyes almost starting
out of her head. "Good Lord!"

"What is this?" said Dr. Craven, coming forward. "What does it mean?"

Then Mary was reminded of the boy Rajah again. Colin answered as if
neither the doctor's alarm nor Mrs. Medlock's terror were of the
slightest consequence. He was as little disturbed or frightened as if an
elderly cat and dog had walked into the room.

"This is my cousin, Mary Lennox," he said. "I asked her to come and talk
to me. I like her. She must come and talk to me whenever I send for
her."

Dr. Craven turned reproachfully to Mrs. Medlock.

"Oh, sir," she panted. "I don't know how it's happened. There's not a
servant on the place that'd dare to talk--they all have their orders."

"Nobody told her anything," said Colin, "she heard me crying and found
me herself. I am glad she came. Don't be silly, Medlock."

Mary saw that Dr. Craven did not look pleased, but it was quite plain
that he dare not oppose his patient. He sat down by Colin and felt his
pulse.

"I am afraid there has been too much excitement. Excitement is not good
for you, my boy," he said.

"I should be excited if she kept away," answered Colin, his eyes
beginning to look dangerously sparkling. "I am better. She makes me
better. The nurse must bring up her tea with mine. We will have tea
together."

Mrs. Medlock and Dr. Craven looked at each other in a troubled way, but
there was evidently nothing to be done.

"He does look rather better, sir," ventured Mrs. Medlock.
"But"--thinking the matter over--"he looked better this morning before
she came into the room."

"She came into the room last night. She stayed with me a long time. She
sang a Hindustani song to me and it made me go to sleep," said Colin. "I
was better when I wakened up. I wanted my breakfast. I want my tea now.
Tell nurse, Medlock."

Dr. Craven did not stay very long. He talked to the nurse for a few
minutes when she came into the room and said a few words of warning to
Colin. He must not talk too much; he must not forget that he was ill; he
must not forget that he was very easily tired. Mary thought that there
seemed to be a number of uncomfortable things he was not to forget.

Colin looked fretful and kept his strange black-lashed eyes fixed on Dr.
Craven's face.

"I _want_ to forget it," he said at last. "She makes me forget it. That
is why I want her."

Dr. Craven did not look happy when he left the room. He gave a puzzled
glance at the little girl sitting on the large stool. She had become a
stiff, silent child again as soon as he entered and he could not see
what the attraction was. The boy actually did look brighter,
however--and he sighed rather heavily as he went down the corridor.

"They are always wanting me to eat things when I don't want to," said
Colin, as the nurse brought in the tea and put it on the table by the
sofa. "Now, if you'll eat I will. Those muffins look so nice and hot.
Tell me about Rajahs."




CHAPTER XV

NEST BUILDING


After another week of rain the high arch of blue sky appeared again and
the sun which poured down was quite hot. Though there had been no chance
to see either the secret garden or Dickon, Mistress Mary had enjoyed
herself very much. The week had not seemed long. She had spent hours of
every day with Colin in his room, talking about Rajahs or gardens or
Dickon and the cottage on the moor. They had looked at the splendid
books and pictures and sometimes Mary had read things to Colin, and
sometimes he had read a little to her. When he was amused and interested
she thought he scarcely looked like an invalid at all, except that his
face was so colorless and he was always on the sofa.

"You are a sly young one to listen and get out of your bed to go
following things up like you did that night," Mrs. Medlock said once.
"But there's no saying it's not been a sort of blessing to the lot of
us. He's not had a tantrum or a whining fit since you made friends. The
nurse was just going to give up the case because she was so sick of
him, but she says she doesn't mind staying now you've gone on duty with
her," laughing a little.

In her talks with Colin, Mary had tried to be very cautious about the
secret garden. There were certain things she wanted to find out from
him, but she felt that she must find them out without asking him direct
questions. In the first place, as she began to like to be with him, she
wanted to discover whether he was the kind of boy you could tell a
secret to. He was not in the least like Dickon, but he was evidently so
pleased with the idea of a garden no one knew anything about that she
thought perhaps he could be trusted. But she had not known him long
enough to be sure. The second thing she wanted to find out was this: If
he could be trusted--if he really could--wouldn't it be possible to take
him to the garden without having any one find it out? The grand doctor
had said that he must have fresh air and Colin had said that he would
not mind fresh air in a secret garden. Perhaps if he had a great deal of
fresh air and knew Dickon and the robin and saw things growing he might
not think so much about dying. Mary had seen herself in the glass
sometimes lately when she had realized that she looked quite a different
creature from the child she had seen when she arrived from India. This
child looked nicer. Even Martha had seen a change in her.

"Th' air from th' moor has done thee good already," she had said.
"Tha'rt not nigh so yeller and tha'rt not nigh so scrawny. Even tha'
hair doesn't slamp down on tha' head so flat. It's got some life in it
so as it sticks out a bit."

"It's like me," said Mary. "It's growing stronger and fatter. I'm sure
there's more of it."

"It looks it, for sure," said Martha, ruffling it up a little round her
face. "Tha'rt not half so ugly when it's that way an' there's a bit o'
red in tha' cheeks."

If gardens and fresh air had been good for her perhaps they would be
good for Colin. But then, if he hated people to look at him, perhaps he
would not like to see Dickon.

"Why does it make you angry when you are looked at?" she inquired one
day.

"I always hated it," he answered, "even when I was very little. Then
when they took me to the seaside and I used to lie in my carriage
everybody used to stare and ladies would stop and talk to my nurse and
then they would begin to whisper and I knew then they were saying I
shouldn't live to grow up. Then sometimes the ladies would pat my
cheeks and say 'Poor child!' Once when a lady did that I screamed out
loud and bit her hand. She was so frightened she ran away."

"She thought you had gone mad like a dog," said Mary, not at all
admiringly.

"I don't care what she thought," said Colin, frowning.

"I wonder why you didn't scream and bite me when I came into your room?"
said Mary. Then she began to smile slowly.

"I thought you were a ghost or a dream," he said. "You can't bite a
ghost or a dream, and if you scream they don't care."

"Would you hate it if--if a boy looked at you?" Mary asked uncertainly.

He lay back on his cushion and paused thoughtfully.

"There's one boy," he said quite slowly, as if he were thinking over
every word, "there's one boy I believe I shouldn't mind. It's that boy
who knows where the foxes live--Dickon."

"I'm sure you wouldn't mind him," said Mary.

"The birds don't and other animals," he said, still thinking it over,
"perhaps that's why I shouldn't. He's a sort of animal charmer and I am
a boy animal."

Then he laughed and she laughed too; in fact it ended in their both
laughing a great deal and finding the idea of a boy animal hiding in
his hole very funny indeed.

What Mary felt afterward was that she need not fear about Dickon.

       *       *       *       *       *

On that first morning when the sky was blue again Mary wakened very
early. The sun was pouring in slanting rays through the blinds and there
was something so joyous in the sight of it that she jumped out of bed
and ran to the window. She drew up the blinds and opened the window
itself and a great waft of fresh, scented air blew in upon her. The moor
was blue and the whole world looked as if something Magic had happened
to it. There were tender little fluting sounds here and there and
everywhere, as if scores of birds were beginning to tune up for a
concert. Mary put her hand out of the window and held it in the sun.

"It's warm--warm!" she said. "It will make the green points push up and
up and up, and it will make the bulbs and roots work and struggle with
all their might under the earth."

She kneeled down and leaned out of the window as far as she could,
breathing big breaths and sniffing the air until she laughed because she
remembered what Dickon's mother had said about the end of his nose
quivering like a rabbit's.

"It must be very early," she said. "The little clouds are all pink and
I've never seen the sky look like this. No one is up. I don't even hear
the stable boys."

A sudden thought made her scramble to her feet.

"I can't wait! I am going to see the garden!"

She had learned to dress herself by this time and she put on her clothes
in five minutes. She knew a small side door which she could unbolt
herself and she flew down-stairs in her stocking feet and put on her
shoes in the hall. She unchained and unbolted and unlocked and when the
door was open she sprang across the step with one bound, and there she
was standing on the grass, which seemed to have turned green, and with
the sun pouring down on her and warm sweet wafts about her and the
fluting and twittering and singing coming from every bush and tree. She
clasped her hands for pure joy and looked up in the sky and it was so
blue and pink and pearly and white and flooded with springtime light
that she felt as if she must flute and sing aloud herself and knew that
thrushes and robins and skylarks could not possibly help it. She ran
around the shrubs and paths toward the secret garden.

"It is all different already," she said. "The grass is greener and
things are sticking up everywhere and things are uncurling and green
buds of leaves are showing. This afternoon I am sure Dickon will come."

The long warm rain had done strange things to the herbaceous beds which
bordered the walk by the lower wall. There were things sprouting and
pushing out from the roots of clumps of plants and there were actually
here and there glimpses of royal purple and yellow unfurling among the
stems of crocuses. Six months before Mistress Mary would not have seen
how the world was waking up, but now she missed nothing.

When she had reached the place where the door hid itself under the ivy,
she was startled by a curious loud sound. It was the caw--caw of a crow
and it came from the top of the wall, and when she looked up, there sat
a big glossy-plumaged blue-black bird, looking down at her very wisely
indeed. She had never seen a crow so close before and he made her a
little nervous, but the next moment he spread his wings and flapped away
across the garden. She hoped he was not going to stay inside and she
pushed the door open wondering if he would. When she got fairly into the
garden she saw that he probably did intend to stay because he had
alighted on a dwarf apple-tree, and under the apple-tree was lying a
little reddish animal with a bushy tail, and both of them were watching
the stooping body and rust-red head of Dickon, who was kneeling on the
grass working hard.

Mary flew across the grass to him.

"Oh, Dickon! Dickon!" she cried out. "How could you get here so early!
How could you! The sun has only just got up!"

He got up himself, laughing and glowing, and tousled; his eyes like a
bit of the sky.

"Eh!" he said. "I was up long before him. How could I have stayed abed!
Th' world's all fair begun again this mornin', it has. An' it's workin'
an' hummin' an' scratchin' an' pipin' an' nest-buildin' an' breathin'
out scents, till you've got to be out on it 'stead o' lyin' on your
back. When th' sun did jump up, th' moor went mad for joy, an' I was in
the midst of th' heather, an' I run like mad myself, shoutin' an'
singin'. An' I come straight here. I couldn't have stayed away. Why, th'
garden was lyin' here waitin'!"

Mary put her hands on her chest, panting, as if she had been running
herself.

"Oh, Dickon! Dickon!" she said. "I'm so happy I can scarcely breathe!"

Seeing him talking to a stranger, the little bushy-tailed animal rose
from its place under the tree and came to him, and the rook, cawing
once, flew down from its branch and settled quietly on his shoulder.

"This is th' little fox cub," he said, rubbing the little reddish
animal's head. "It's named Captain. An' this here's Soot. Soot he flew
across th' moor with me an' Captain he run same as if th' hounds had
been after him. They both felt same as I did."

Neither of the creatures looked as if he were the least afraid of Mary.
When Dickon began to walk about, Soot stayed on his shoulder and Captain
trotted quietly close to his side.

"See here!" said Dickon. "See how these has pushed up, an' these an'
these! An' Eh! look at these here!"

He threw himself upon his knees and Mary went down beside him. They had
come upon a whole clump of crocuses burst into purple and orange and
gold. Mary bent her face down and kissed and kissed them.

"You never kiss a person in that way," she said when she lifted her
head. "Flowers are so different."

He looked puzzled but smiled.

"Eh!" he said, "I've kissed mother many a time that way when I come in
from th' moor after a day's roamin' an' she stood there at th' door in
th' sun, lookin' so glad an' comfortable."

They ran from one part of the garden to another and found so many
wonders that they were obliged to remind themselves that they must
whisper or speak low. He showed her swelling leaf-buds on rose branches
which had seemed dead. He showed her ten thousand new green points
pushing through the mould. They put their eager young noses close to the
earth and sniffed its warmed springtime breathing; they dug and pulled
and laughed low with rapture until Mistress Mary's hair was as tumbled
as Dickon's and her cheeks were almost as poppy red as his.

There was every joy on earth in the secret garden that morning, and in
the midst of them came a delight more delightful than all, because it
was more wonderful. Swiftly something flew across the wall and darted
through the trees to a close grown corner, a little flare of
red-breasted bird with something hanging from its beak. Dickon stood
quite still and put his hand on Mary almost as if they had suddenly
found themselves laughing in a church.

"We munnot stir," he whispered in broad Yorkshire. "We munnot scarce
breathe. I knowed he was mate-huntin' when I seed him last. It's Ben
Weatherstaff's robin. He's buildin' his nest. He'll stay here if us
don't flight him."

They settled down softly upon the grass and sat there without moving.

"Us mustn't seem as if us was watchin' him too close," said Dickon.
"He'd be out with us for good if he got th' notion us was interferin'
now. He'll be a good bit different till all this is over. He's settin'
up housekeepin'. He'll be shyer an' readier to take things ill. He's got
no time for visitin' an' gossipin'. Us must keep still a bit an' try to
look as if us was grass an' trees an' bushes. Then when he's got used to
seein' us I'll chirp a bit an' he'll know us'll not be in his way."

Mistress Mary was not at all sure that she knew, as Dickon seemed to,
how to try to look like grass and trees and bushes. But he had said the
queer thing as if it were the simplest and most natural thing in the
world, and she felt it must be quite easy to him, and indeed she watched
him for a few minutes carefully, wondering if it was possible for him to
quietly turn green and put out branches and leaves. But he only sat
wonderfully still, and when he spoke dropped his voice to such a
softness that it was curious that she could hear him, but she could.

"It's part o' th' springtime, this nest-buildin' is," he said. "I
warrant it's been goin' on in th' same way every year since th' world
was begun. They've got their way o' thinkin' and doin' things an' a
body had better not meddle. You can lose a friend in springtime easier
than any other season if you're too curious."

"If we talk about him I can't help looking at him," Mary said as softly
as possible. "We must talk of something else. There is something I want
to tell you."

"He'll like it better if us talks o' somethin' else," said Dickon. "What
is it tha's got to tell me?"

"Well--do you know about Colin?" she whispered.

He turned his head to look at her.

"What does tha' know about him?" he asked.

"I've seen him. I have been to talk to him every day this week. He wants
me to come. He says I'm making him forget about being ill and dying,"
answered Mary.

Dickon looked actually relieved as soon as the surprise died away from
his round face.

"I am glad o' that," he exclaimed. "I'm right down glad. It makes me
easier. I knowed I must say nothin' about him an' I don't like havin' to
hide things."

"Don't you like hiding the garden?" said Mary.

"I'll never tell about it," he answered. "But I says to mother,
'Mother,' I says, 'I got a secret to keep. It's not a bad 'un, tha'
knows that. It's no worse than hidin' where a bird's nest is. Tha'
doesn't mind it, does tha'?'"

Mary always wanted to hear about mother.

"What did she say?" she asked, not at all afraid to hear.

Dickon grinned sweet-temperedly.

"It was just like her, what she said," he answered. "She give my head a
bit of a rub an' laughed an' she says, 'Eh, lad, tha' can have all th'
secrets tha' likes. I've knowed thee twelve year'.'"

"How did you know about Colin?" asked Mary.

"Everybody as knowed about Mester Craven knowed there was a little lad
as was like to be a cripple, an' they knowed Mester Craven didn't like
him to be talked about. Folks is sorry for Mester Craven because Mrs.
Craven was such a pretty young lady an' they was so fond of each other.
Mrs. Medlock stops in our cottage whenever she goes to Thwaite an' she
doesn't mind talkin' to mother before us children, because she knows us
has been brought up to be trusty. How did tha' find out about him?
Martha was in fine trouble th' last time she came home. She said tha'd
heard him frettin' an' tha' was askin' questions an' she didn't know
what to say."

Mary told him her story about the midnight wuthering of the wind which
had wakened her and about the faint far-off sounds of the complaining
voice which had led her down the dark corridors with her candle and had
ended with her opening of the door of the dimly lighted room with the
carven four-posted bed in the corner. When she described the small
ivory-white face and the strange black-rimmed eyes Dickon shook his
head.

"Them's just like his mother's eyes, only hers was always laughin', they
say," he said. "They say as Mr. Craven can't bear to see him when he's
awake an' it's because his eyes is so like his mother's an' yet looks so
different in his miserable bit of a face."

"Do you think he wants him to die?" whispered Mary.

"No, but he wishes he'd never been born. Mother she says that's th'
worst thing on earth for a child. Them as is not wanted scarce ever
thrives. Mester Craven he'd buy anythin' as money could buy for th' poor
lad but he'd like to forget as he's on earth. For one thing, he's afraid
he'll look at him some day and find he's growed hunchback."

"Colin's so afraid of it himself that he won't sit up," said Mary. "He
says he's always thinking that if he should feel a lump coming he
should go crazy and scream himself to death."

"Eh! he oughtn't to lie there thinkin' things like that," said Dickon.
"No lad could get well as thought them sort o' things."

The fox was lying on the grass close by him looking up to ask for a pat
now and then, and Dickon bent down and rubbed his neck softly and
thought a few minutes in silence. Presently he lifted his head and
looked round the garden.

"When first we got in here," he said, "it seemed like everything was
gray. Look round now and tell me if tha' doesn't see a difference."

Mary looked and caught her breath a little.

"Why!" she cried, "the gray wall is changing. It is as if a green mist
were creeping over it. It's almost like a green gauze veil."

"Aye," said Dickon. "An' it'll be greener and greener till th' gray's
all gone. Can tha' guess what I was thinkin'?"

"I know it was something nice," said Mary eagerly. "I believe it was
something about Colin."

"I was thinkin' that if he was out here he wouldn't be watchin' for
lumps to grow on his back; he'd be watchin' for buds to break on th'
rose-bushes, an' he'd likely be healthier," explained Dickon. "I was
wonderin' if us could ever get him in th' humor to come out here an'
lie under th' trees in his carriage."

"I've been wondering that myself. I've thought of it almost every time
I've talked to him," said Mary. "I've wondered if he could keep a secret
and I've wondered if we could bring him here without any one seeing us.
I thought perhaps you could push his carriage. The doctor said he must
have fresh air and if he wants us to take him out no one dare disobey
him. He won't go out for other people and perhaps they will be glad if
he will go out with us. He could order the gardeners to keep away so
they wouldn't find out."

Dickon was thinking very hard as he scratched Captain's back.

"It'd be good for him, I'll warrant," he said. "Us'd not be thinkin'
he'd better never been born. Us'd be just two children watchin' a garden
grow, an' he'd be another. Two lads an' a little lass just lookin' on at
th' springtime. I warrant it'd be better than doctor's stuff."

"He's been lying in his room so long and he's always been so afraid of
his back that it has made him queer," said Mary. "He knows a good many
things out of books but he doesn't know anything else. He says he has
been too ill to notice things and he hates going out of doors and hates
gardens and gardeners. But he likes to hear about this garden because
it is a secret. I daren't tell him much but he said he wanted to see
it."

"Us'll have him out here sometime for sure," said Dickon. "I could push
his carriage well enough. Has tha' noticed how th' robin an' his mate
has been workin' while we've been sittin' here? Look at him perched on
that branch wonderin' where it'd be best to put that twig he's got in
his beak."

He made one of his low whistling calls and the robin turned his head and
looked at him inquiringly, still holding his twig. Dickon spoke to him
as Ben Weatherstaff did, but Dickon's tone was one of friendly advice.

"Wheres'ever tha' puts it," he said, "it'll be all right. Tha' knew how
to build tha' nest before tha' came out o' th' egg. Get on with thee,
lad. Tha'st got no time to lose."

"Oh, I do like to hear you talk to him!" Mary said, laughing
delightedly. "Ben Weatherstaff scolds him and makes fun of him, and he
hops about and looks as if he understood every word, and I know he likes
it. Ben Weatherstaff says he is so conceited he would rather have stones
thrown at him than not be noticed."

Dickon laughed too and went on talking.

"Tha' knows us won't trouble thee," he said to the robin. "Us is near
bein' wild things ourselves. Us is nest-buildin' too, bless thee. Look
out tha' doesn't tell on us."

And though the robin did not answer, because his beak was occupied, Mary
knew that when he flew away with his twig to his own corner of the
garden the darkness of his dew-bright eye meant that he would not tell
their secret for the world.




CHAPTER XVI

"I WON'T!" SAID MARY


They found a great deal to do that morning and Mary was late in
returning to the house and was also in such a hurry to get back to her
work that she quite forgot Colin until the last moment.

"Tell Colin that I can't come and see him yet," she said to Martha. "I'm
very busy in the garden."

Martha looked rather frightened.

"Eh! Miss Mary," she said, "it may put him all out of humor when I tell
him that."

But Mary was not as afraid of him as other people were and she was not a
self-sacrificing person.

"I can't stay," she answered. "Dickon's waiting for me;" and she ran
away.

The afternoon was even lovelier and busier than the morning had been.
Already nearly all the weeds were cleared out of the garden and most of
the roses and trees had been pruned or dug about. Dickon had brought a
spade of his own and he had taught Mary to use all her tools, so that
by this time it was plain that though the lovely wild place was not
likely to become a "gardener's garden" it would be a wilderness of
growing things before the springtime was over.

"There'll be apple blossoms an' cherry blossoms overhead," Dickon said,
working away with all his might. "An' there'll be peach an' plum trees
in bloom against th' walls, an' th' grass'll be a carpet o' flowers."

The little fox and the rook were as happy and busy as they were, and the
robin and his mate flew backward and forward like tiny streaks of
lightning. Sometimes the rook flapped his black wings and soared away
over the tree-tops in the park. Each time he came back and perched near
Dickon and cawed several times as if he were relating his adventures,
and Dickon talked to him just as he had talked to the robin. Once when
Dickon was so busy that he did not answer him at first, Soot flew on to
his shoulders and gently tweaked his ear with his large beak. When Mary
wanted to rest a little Dickon sat down with her under a tree and once
he took his pipe out of his pocket and played the soft strange little
notes and two squirrels appeared on the wall and looked and listened.

"Tha's a good bit stronger than tha' was," Dickon said, looking at her
as she was digging. "Tha's beginning to look different, for sure."

Mary was glowing with exercise and good spirits.

"I'm getting fatter and fatter every day," she said quite exultantly.
"Mrs. Medlock will have to get me some bigger dresses. Martha says my
hair is growing thicker. It isn't so flat and stringy."

The sun was beginning to set and sending deep gold-colored rays slanting
under the trees when they parted.

"It'll be fine to-morrow," said Dickon. "I'll be at work by sunrise."

"So will I," said Mary.

       *       *       *       *       *

She ran back to the house as quickly as her feet would carry her. She
wanted to tell Colin about Dickon's fox cub and the rook and about what
the springtime had been doing. She felt sure he would like to hear. So
it was not very pleasant when she opened the door of her room, to see
Martha standing waiting for her with a doleful face.

"What is the matter?" she asked. "What did Colin say when you told him I
couldn't come?"

"Eh!" said Martha, "I wish tha'd gone. He was nigh goin' into one o'
his tantrums. There's been a nice to do all afternoon to keep him quiet.
He would watch the clock all th' time."

Mary's lips pinched themselves together. She was no more used to
considering other people than Colin was and she saw no reason why an
ill-tempered boy should interfere with the thing she liked best. She
knew nothing about the pitifulness of people who had been ill and
nervous and who did not know that they could control their tempers and
need not make other people ill and nervous, too. When she had had a
headache in India she had done her best to see that everybody else also
had a headache or something quite as bad. And she felt she was quite
right; but of course now she felt that Colin was quite wrong.

He was not on his sofa when she went into his room. He was lying flat on
his back in bed and he did not turn his head toward her as she came in.
This was a bad beginning and Mary marched up to him with her stiff
manner.

"Why didn't you get up?" she said.

"I did get up this morning when I thought you were coming," he answered,
without looking at her. "I made them put me back in bed this afternoon.
My back ached and my head ached and I was tired. Why didn't you come?"

"I was working in the garden with Dickon," said Mary.

Colin frowned and condescended to look at her.

"I won't let that boy come here if you go and stay with him instead of
coming to talk to me," he said.

Mary flew into a fine passion. She could fly into a passion without
making a noise. She just grew sour and obstinate and did not care what
happened.

"If you send Dickon away, I'll never come into this room again!" she
retorted.

"You'll have to if I want you," said Colin.

"I won't!" said Mary.

"I'll make you," said Colin, "They shall drag you in."

"Shall they, Mr. Rajah!" said Mary fiercely. "They may drag me in but
they can't make me talk when they get me here. I'll sit and clench my
teeth and never tell you one thing. I won't even look at you. I'll stare
at the floor!"

They were a nice agreeable pair as they glared at each other. If they
had been two little street boys they would have sprung at each other and
had a rough-and-tumble fight. As it was, they did the next thing to it.

"You are a selfish thing!" cried Colin.

"What are you?" said Mary. "Selfish people always say that. Any one is
selfish who doesn't do what they want. You're more selfish than I am.
You're the most selfish boy I ever saw."

"I'm not!" snapped Colin. "I'm not as selfish as your fine Dickon is! He
keeps you playing in the dirt when he knows I am all by myself. He's
selfish, if you like!"

Mary's eyes flashed fire.

"He's nicer than any other boy that ever lived!" she said. "He's--he's
like an angel!" It might sound rather silly to say that but she did not
care.

"A nice angel!" Colin sneered ferociously. "He's a common cottage boy
off the moor!"

"He's better than a common Rajah!" retorted Mary. "He's a thousand times
better!"

Because she was the stronger of the two she was beginning to get the
better of him. The truth was that he had never had a fight with any one
like himself in his life and, upon the whole, it was rather good for
him, though neither he nor Mary knew anything about that. He turned his
head on his pillow and shut his eyes and a big tear was squeezed out and
ran down his cheek. He was beginning to feel pathetic and sorry for
himself--not for any one else.

"I'm not as selfish as you, because I'm always ill, and I'm sure there
is a lump coming on my back," he said. "And I am going to die besides."

"You're not!" contradicted Mary unsympathetically.

He opened his eyes quite wide with indignation. He had never heard such
a thing said before. He was at once furious and slightly pleased, if a
person could be both at the same time.

"I'm not?" he cried. "I am! You know I am! Everybody says so."

"I don't believe it!" said Mary sourly. "You just say that to make
people sorry. I believe you're proud of it. I don't believe it! If you
were a nice boy it might be true--but you're too nasty!"

In spite of his invalid back Colin sat up in bed in quite a healthy
rage.

"Get out of the room!" he shouted and he caught hold of his pillow and
threw it at her. He was not strong enough to throw it far and it only
fell at her feet, but Mary's face looked as pinched as a nutcracker.

"I'm going," she said. "And I won't come back!"

She walked to the door and when she reached it she turned round and
spoke again.

"I was going to tell you all sorts of nice things," she said. "Dickon
brought his fox and his rook and I was going to tell you all about
them. Now I won't tell you a single thing!"

She marched out of the door and closed it behind her, and there to her
great astonishment she found the trained nurse standing as if she had
been listening and, more amazing still--she was laughing. She was a big
handsome young woman who ought not to have been a trained nurse at all,
as she could not bear invalids and she was always making excuses to
leave Colin to Martha or any one else who would take her place. Mary had
never liked her, and she simply stood and gazed up at her as she stood
giggling into her handkerchief.

"What are you laughing at?" she asked her.

"At you two young ones," said the nurse. "It's the best thing that could
happen to the sickly pampered thing to have some one to stand up to him
that's as spoiled as himself;" and she laughed into her handkerchief
again. "If he'd had a young vixen of a sister to fight with it would
have been the saving of him."

"Is he going to die?"

"I don't know and I don't care," said the nurse. "Hysterics and temper
are half what ails him."

"What are hysterics?" asked Mary.

"You'll find out if you work him into a tantrum after this--but at any
rate you've given him something to have hysterics about, and I'm glad
of it."

Mary went back to her room not feeling at all as she had felt when she
had come in from the garden. She was cross and disappointed but not at
all sorry for Colin. She had looked forward to telling him a great many
things and she had meant to try to make up her mind whether it would be
safe to trust him with the great secret. She had been beginning to think
it would be, but now she had changed her mind entirely. She would never
tell him and he could stay in his room and never get any fresh air and
die if he liked! It would serve him right! She felt so sour and
unrelenting that for a few minutes she almost forgot about Dickon and
the green veil creeping over the world and the soft wind blowing down
from the moor.

Martha was waiting for her and the trouble in her face had been
temporarily replaced by interest and curiosity. There was a wooden box
on the table and its cover had been removed and revealed that it was
full of neat packages.

"Mr. Craven sent it to you," said Martha. "It looks as if it had
picture-books in it."

Mary remembered what he had asked her the day she had gone to his room.
"Do you want anything--dolls--toys--books?" She opened the package
wondering if he had sent a doll, and also wondering what she should do
with it if he had. But he had not sent one. There were several beautiful
books such as Colin had, and two of them were about gardens and were
full of pictures. There were two or three games and there was a
beautiful little writing-case with a gold monogram on it and a gold pen
and inkstand.

Everything was so nice that her pleasure began to crowd her anger out of
her mind. She had not expected him to remember her at all and her hard
little heart grew quite warm.

"I can write better than I can print," she said, "and the first thing I
shall write with that pen will be a letter to tell him I am much
obliged."

If she had been friends with Colin she would have run to show him her
presents at once, and they would have looked at the pictures and read
some of the gardening books and perhaps tried playing the games, and he
would have enjoyed himself so much he would never once have thought he
was going to die or have put his hand on his spine to see if there was a
lump coming. He had a way of doing that which she could not bear. It
gave her an uncomfortable frightened feeling because he always looked so
frightened himself. He said that if he felt even quite a little lump
some day he should know his hunch had begun to grow. Something he had
heard Mrs. Medlock whispering to the nurse had given him the idea and he
had thought over it in secret until it was quite firmly fixed in his
mind. Mrs. Medlock had said his father's back had begun to show its
crookedness in that way when he was a child. He had never told any one
but Mary that most of his "tantrums" as they called them grew out of his
hysterical hidden fear. Mary had been sorry for him when he had told
her.

"He always began to think about it when he was cross or tired," she said
to herself. "And he has been cross to-day. Perhaps--perhaps he has been
thinking about it all afternoon."

She stood still, looking down at the carpet and thinking.

"I said I would never go back again--" she hesitated, knitting her
brows--"but perhaps, just perhaps, I will go and see--if he wants me--in
the morning. Perhaps he'll try to throw his pillow at me again, but--I
think--I'll go."




CHAPTER XVII

A TANTRUM


She had got up very early in the morning and had worked hard in the
garden and she was tired and sleepy, so as soon as Martha had brought
her supper and she had eaten it, she was glad to go to bed. As she laid
her head on the pillow she murmured to herself:

"I'll go out before breakfast and work with Dickon and then afterward--I
believe--I'll go to see him."

She thought it was the middle of the night when she was wakened by such
dreadful sounds that she jumped out of bed in an instant. What was
it--what was it? The next minute she felt quite sure she knew. Doors
were opened and shut and there were hurrying feet in the corridors and
some one was crying and screaming at the same time, screaming and crying
in a horrible way.

"It's Colin," she said. "He's having one of those tantrums the nurse
called hysterics. How awful it sounds."

As she listened to the sobbing screams she did not wonder that people
were so frightened that they gave him his own way in everything rather
than hear them. She put her hands over her ears and felt sick and
shivering.

"I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do," she kept saying. "I
can't bear it."

Once she wondered if he would stop if she dared go to him and then she
remembered how he had driven her out of the room and thought that
perhaps the sight of her might make him worse. Even when she pressed her
hands more tightly over her ears she could not keep the awful sounds
out. She hated them so and was so terrified by them that suddenly they
began to make her angry and she felt as if she should like to fly into a
tantrum herself and frighten him as he was frightening her. She was not
used to any one's tempers but her own. She took her hands from her ears
and sprang up and stamped her foot.

"He ought to be stopped! Somebody ought to make him stop! Somebody ought
to beat him!" she cried out.

Just then she heard feet almost running down the corridor and her door
opened and the nurse came in. She was not laughing now by any means. She
even looked rather pale.

"He's worked himself into hysterics," she said in a great hurry. "He'll
do himself harm. No one can do anything with him. You come and try,
like a good child. He likes you."

"He turned me out of the room this morning," said Mary, stamping her
foot with excitement.

The stamp rather pleased the nurse. The truth was that she had been
afraid she might find Mary crying and hiding her head under the
bed-clothes.

"That's right," she said. "You're in the right humor. You go and scold
him. Give him something new to think of. Do go, child, as quick as ever
you can."

It was not until afterward that Mary realized that the thing had been
funny as well as dreadful--that it was funny that all the grown-up
people were so frightened that they came to a little girl just because
they guessed she was almost as bad as Colin himself.

She flew along the corridor and the nearer she got to the screams the
higher her temper mounted. She felt quite wicked by the time she reached
the door. She slapped it open with her hand and ran across the room to
the four-posted bed.

"You stop!" she almost shouted. "You stop! I hate you! Everybody hates
you! I wish everybody would run out of the house and let you scream
yourself to death! You _will_ scream yourself to death in a minute, and
I wish you would!"

A nice sympathetic child could neither have thought nor said such
things, but it just happened that the shock of hearing them was the best
possible thing for this hysterical boy whom no one had ever dared to
restrain or contradict.

He had been lying on his face beating his pillow with his hands and he
actually almost jumped around, he turned so quickly at the sound of the
furious little voice. His face looked dreadful, white and red and
swollen, and he was gasping and choking; but savage little Mary did not
care an atom.

"If you scream another scream," she said, "I'll scream too--and I can
scream louder than you can and I'll frighten you, I'll frighten you!"

He actually had stopped screaming because she had startled him so. The
scream which had been coming almost choked him. The tears were streaming
down his face and he shook all over.

"I can't stop!" he gasped and sobbed. "I can't--I can't!"

"You can!" shouted Mary. "Half that ails you is hysterics and
temper--just hysterics--hysterics--hysterics!" and she stamped each time
she said it.

"I felt the lump--I felt it," choked out Colin. "I knew I should. I
shall have a hunch on my back and then I shall die," and he began to
writhe again and turned on his face and sobbed and wailed but he didn't
scream.

"You didn't feel a lump!" contradicted Mary fiercely. "If you did it was
only a hysterical lump. Hysterics makes lumps. There's nothing the
matter with your horrid back--nothing but hysterics! Turn over and let
me look at it!"

She liked the word "hysterics" and felt somehow as if it had an effect
on him. He was probably like herself and had never heard it before.

"Nurse," she commanded, "come here and show me his back this minute!"

The nurse, Mrs. Medlock and Martha had been standing huddled together
near the door staring at her, their mouths half open. All three had
gasped with fright more than once. The nurse came forward as if she were
half afraid. Colin was heaving with great breathless sobs.

"Perhaps he--he won't let me," she hesitated in a low voice.

Colin heard her, however, and he gasped out between two sobs:

"Sh--show her! She--she'll see then!"

It was a poor thin back to look at when it was bared. Every rib could be
counted and every joint of the spine, though Mistress Mary did not count
them as she bent over and examined them with a solemn savage little
face. She looked so sour and old-fashioned that the nurse turned her
head aside to hide the twitching of her mouth. There was just a minute's
silence, for even Colin tried to hold his breath while Mary looked up
and down his spine, and down and up, as intently as if she had been the
great doctor from London.

"There's not a single lump there!" she said at last. "There's not a lump
as big as a pin--except backbone lumps, and you can only feel them
because you're thin. I've got backbone lumps myself, and they used to
stick out as much as yours do, until I began to get fatter, and I am not
fat enough yet to hide them. There's not a lump as big as a pin! If you
ever say there is again, I shall laugh!"

No one but Colin himself knew what effect those crossly spoken childish
words had on him. If he had ever had any one to talk to about his secret
terrors--if he had ever dared to let himself ask questions--if he had
had childish companions and had not lain on his back in the huge closed
house, breathing an atmosphere heavy with the fears of people who were
most of them ignorant and tired of him, he would have found out that
most of his fright and illness was created by himself. But he had lain
and thought of himself and his aches and weariness for hours and days
and months and years. And now that an angry unsympathetic little girl
insisted obstinately that he was not as ill as he thought he was he
actually felt as if she might be speaking the truth.

"I didn't know," ventured the nurse, "that he thought he had a lump on
his spine. His back is weak because he won't try to sit up. I could have
told him there was no lump there."

Colin gulped and turned his face a little to look at her.

"C-could you?" he said pathetically.

"Yes, sir."

"There!" said Mary, and she gulped too.

Colin turned on his face again and but for his long-drawn broken
breaths, which were the dying down of his storm of sobbing, he lay still
for a minute, though great tears streamed down his face and wet the
pillow. Actually the tears meant that a curious great relief had come to
him. Presently he turned and looked at the nurse again and strangely
enough he was not like a Rajah at all as he spoke to her.

"Do you think--I could--live to grow up?" he said.

The nurse was neither clever nor soft-hearted but she could repeat some
of the London doctor's words.

"You probably will if you will do what you are told to do and not give
way to your temper, and stay out a great deal in the fresh air."

Colin's tantrum had passed and he was weak and worn out with crying and
this perhaps made him feel gentle. He put out his hand a little toward
Mary, and I am glad to say that, her own tantrum having passed, she was
softened too and met him half-way with her hand, so that it was a sort
of making up.

"I'll--I'll go out with you, Mary," he said. "I shan't hate fresh air if
we can find--" He remembered just in time to stop himself from saying
"if we can find the secret garden" and he ended, "I shall like to go out
with you if Dickon will come and push my chair. I do so want to see
Dickon and the fox and the crow."

The nurse remade the tumbled bed and shook and straightened the pillows.
Then she made Colin a cup of beef tea and gave a cup to Mary, who really
was very glad to get it after her excitement. Mrs. Medlock and Martha
gladly slipped away, and after everything was neat and calm and in order
the nurse looked as if she would very gladly slip away also. She was a
healthy young woman who resented being robbed of her sleep and she
yawned quite openly as she looked at Mary, who had pushed her big
footstool close to the four-posted bed and was holding Colin's hand.

"You must go back and get your sleep out," she said. "He'll drop off
after a while--if he's not too upset. Then I'll lie down myself in the
next room."

"Would you like me to sing you that song I learned from my Ayah?" Mary
whispered to Colin.

His hand pulled hers gently and he turned his tired eyes on her
appealingly.

"Oh, yes!" he answered. "It's such a soft song. I shall go to sleep in a
minute."

"I will put him to sleep," Mary said to the yawning nurse. "You can go
if you like."

"Well," said the nurse, with an attempt at reluctance. "If he doesn't go
to sleep in half an hour you must call me."

"Very well," answered Mary.

The nurse was out of the room in a minute and as soon as she was gone
Colin pulled Mary's hand again.

"I almost told," he said; "but I stopped myself in time. I won't talk
and I'll go to sleep, but you said you had a whole lot of nice things to
tell me. Have you--do you think you have found out anything at all about
the way into the secret garden?"

Mary looked at his poor little tired face and swollen eyes and her heart
relented.

"Ye-es," she answered, "I think I have. And if you will go to sleep I
will tell you to-morrow."

His hand quite trembled.

"Oh, Mary!" he said. "Oh, Mary! If I could get into it I think I should
live to grow up! Do you suppose that instead of singing the Ayah
song--you could just tell me softly as you did that first day what you
imagine it looks like inside? I am sure it will make me go to sleep."

"Yes," answered Mary. "Shut your eyes."

He closed his eyes and lay quite still and she held his hand and began
to speak very slowly and in a very low voice.

"I think it has been left alone so long--that it has grown all into a
lovely tangle. I think the roses have climbed and climbed and climbed
until they hang from the branches and walls and creep over the
ground--almost like a strange gray mist. Some of them have died but
many--are alive and when the summer comes there will be curtains and
fountains of roses. I think the ground is full of daffodils and
snowdrops and lilies and iris working their way out of the dark. Now the
spring has begun--perhaps--perhaps--"

The soft drone of her voice was making him stiller and stiller and she
saw it and went on.

"Perhaps they are coming up through the grass--perhaps there are
clusters of purple crocuses and gold ones--even now. Perhaps the leaves
are beginning to break out and uncurl--and perhaps--the gray is changing
and a green gauze veil is creeping--and creeping over--everything. And
the birds are coming to look at it--because it is--so safe and still.
And perhaps--perhaps--perhaps--" very softly and slowly indeed, "the
robin has found a mate--and is building a nest."

And Colin was asleep.




CHAPTER XVIII

"THA' MUNNOT WASTE NO TIME"


Of course Mary did not waken early the next morning. She slept late
because she was tired, and when Martha brought her breakfast she told
her that though Colin was quite quiet he was ill and feverish as he
always was after he had worn himself out with a fit of crying. Mary ate
her breakfast slowly as she listened.

"He says he wishes tha' would please go and see him as soon as tha'
can," Martha said. "It's queer what a fancy he's took to thee. Tha' did
give it him last night for sure--didn't tha'? Nobody else would have
dared to do it. Eh! poor lad! He's been spoiled till salt won't save
him. Mother says as th' two worst things as can happen to a child is
never to have his own way--or always to have it. She doesn't know which
is th' worst. Tha' was in a fine temper tha'self, too. But he says to me
when I went into his room, 'Please ask Miss Mary if she'll please come
an' talk to me?' Think o' him saying please! Will you go, Miss?"

"I'll run and see Dickon first," said Mary. "No, I'll go and see Colin
first and tell him--I know what I'll tell him," with a sudden
inspiration.

She had her hat on when she appeared in Colin's room and for a second he
looked disappointed. He was in bed and his face was pitifully white and
there were dark circles round his eyes.

"I'm glad you came," he said. "My head aches and I ache all over because
I'm so tired. Are you going somewhere?"

Mary went and leaned against his bed.

"I won't be long," she said. "I'm going to Dickon, but I'll come back.
Colin, it's--it's something about the secret garden."

His whole face brightened and a little color came into it.

"Oh! is it!" he cried out. "I dreamed about it all night. I heard you
say something about gray changing into green, and I dreamed I was
standing in a place all filled with trembling little green leaves--and
there were birds on nests everywhere and they looked so soft and still.
I'll lie and think about it until you come back."

In five minutes Mary was with Dickon in their garden. The fox and the
crow were with him again and this time he had brought two tame
squirrels.

"I came over on the pony this mornin'," he said. "Eh! he is a good
little chap--Jump is! I brought these two in my pockets. This here one
he's called Nut an' this here other one's called Shell."

When he said "Nut" one squirrel leaped on to his right shoulder and when
he said "Shell" the other one leaped on to his left shoulder.

When they sat down on the grass with Captain curled at their feet, Soot
solemnly listening on a tree and Nut and Shell nosing about close to
them, it seemed to Mary that it would be scarcely bearable to leave such
delightfulness, but when she began to tell her story somehow the look in
Dickon's funny face gradually changed her mind. She could see he felt
sorrier for Colin than she did. He looked up at the sky and all about
him.

"Just listen to them birds--th' world seems full of 'em--all whistlin'
an' pipin'," he said. "Look at 'em dartin' about, an' hearken at 'em
callin' to each other. Come springtime seems like as if all th' world's
callin'. The leaves is uncurlin' so you can see 'em--an', my word, th'
nice smells there is about!" sniffing with his happy turned-up nose.
"An' that poor lad lyin' shut up an' seein' so little that he gets to
thinkin' o' things as sets him screamin'. Eh! my! we mun get him out
here--we mun get him watchin' an' listenin' an' sniffin' up th' air an'
get him just soaked through wi' sunshine. An' we munnot lose no time
about it."

When he was very much interested he often spoke quite broad Yorkshire
though at other times he tried to modify his dialect so that Mary could
better understand. But she loved his broad Yorkshire and had in fact
been trying to learn to speak it herself. So she spoke a little now.

"Aye, that we mun," she said (which meant "Yes, indeed, we must"). "I'll
tell thee what us'll do first," she proceeded, and Dickon grinned,
because when the little wench tried to twist her tongue into speaking
Yorkshire it amused him very much. "He's took a graidely fancy to thee.
He wants to see thee and he wants to see Soot an' Captain. When I go
back to the house to talk to him I'll ax him if tha' canna' come an' see
him to-morrow mornin'--an' bring tha' creatures wi' thee--an' then--in a
bit, when there's more leaves out, an' happen a bud or two, we'll get
him to come out an' tha' shall push him in his chair an' we'll bring him
here an' show him everything."

When she stopped she was quite proud of herself. She had never made a
long speech in Yorkshire before and she had remembered very well.

"Tha' mun talk a bit o' Yorkshire like that to Mester Colin," Dickon
chuckled. "Tha'll make him laugh an' there's nowt as good for ill folk
as laughin' is. Mother says she believes as half a hour's good laugh
every mornin' 'ud cure a chap as was makin' ready for typhus fever."

"I'm going to talk Yorkshire to him this very day," said Mary, chuckling
herself.

The garden had reached the time when every day and every night it seemed
as if Magicians were passing through it drawing loveliness out of the
earth and the boughs with wands. It was hard to go away and leave it
all, particularly as Nut had actually crept on to her dress and Shell
had scrambled down the trunk of the apple-tree they sat under and stayed
there looking at her with inquiring eyes. But she went back to the house
and when she sat down close to Colin's bed he began to sniff as Dickon
did though not in such an experienced way.

"You smell like flowers and--and fresh things," he cried out quite
joyously. "What is it you smell of? It's cool and warm and sweet all at
the same time."

"It's th' wind from th' moor," said Mary. "It comes o' sittin' on th'
grass under a tree wi' Dickon an' wi' Captain an' Soot an' Nut an'
Shell. It's th' springtime an' out o' doors an' sunshine as smells so
graidely."

She said it as broadly as she could, and you do not know how broadly
Yorkshire sounds until you have heard some one speak it. Colin began to
laugh.

"What are you doing?" he said. "I never heard you talk like that before.
How funny it sounds."

"I'm givin' thee a bit o' Yorkshire," answered Mary triumphantly. "I
canna' talk as graidely as Dickon an' Martha can but tha' sees I can
shape a bit. Doesn't tha' understand a bit o' Yorkshire when tha' hears
it? An' tha' a Yorkshire lad thysel' bred an' born! Eh! I wonder tha'rt
not ashamed o' thy face."

And then she began to laugh too and they both laughed until they could
not stop themselves and they laughed until the room echoed and Mrs.
Medlock opening the door to come in drew back into the corridor and
stood listening amazed.

"Well, upon my word!" she said, speaking rather broad Yorkshire herself
because there was no one to hear her and she was so astonished. "Whoever
heard th' like! Whoever on earth would ha' thought it!"

There was so much to talk about. It seemed as if Colin could never hear
enough of Dickon and Captain and Soot and Nut and Shell and the pony
whose name was Jump. Mary had run round into the wood with Dickon to see
Jump. He was a tiny little shaggy moor pony with thick locks hanging
over his eyes and with a pretty face and a nuzzling velvet nose. He was
rather thin with living on moor grass but he was as tough and wiry as if
the muscle in his little legs had been made of steel springs. He had
lifted his head and whinnied softly the moment he saw Dickon and he had
trotted up to him and put his head across his shoulder and then Dickon
had talked into his ear and Jump had talked back in odd little whinnies
and puffs and snorts. Dickon had made him give Mary his small front hoof
and kiss her on her cheek with his velvet muzzle.

"Does he really understand everything Dickon says?" Colin asked.

"It seems as if he does," answered Mary. "Dickon says anything will
understand if you're friends with it for sure, but you have to be
friends for sure."

Colin lay quiet a little while and his strange gray eyes seemed to be
staring at the wall, but Mary saw he was thinking.

"I wish I was friends with things," he said at last, "but I'm not. I
never had anything to be friends with, and I can't bear people."

"Can't you bear me?" asked Mary.

"Yes, I can," he answered. "It's very funny but I even like you."

"Ben Weatherstaff said I was like him," said Mary. "He said he'd warrant
we'd both got the same nasty tempers. I think you are like him too. We
are all three alike--you and I and Ben Weatherstaff. He said we were
neither of us much to look at and we were as sour as we looked. But I
don't feel as sour as I used to before I knew the robin and Dickon."

"Did you feel as if you hated people?"

"Yes," answered Mary without any affectation. "I should have detested
you if I had seen you before I saw the robin and Dickon."

Colin put out his thin hand and touched her.

"Mary," he said, "I wish I hadn't said what I did about sending Dickon
away. I hated you when you said he was like an angel and I laughed at
you but--but perhaps he is."

"Well, it was rather funny to say it," she admitted frankly, "because
his nose does turn up and he has a big mouth and his clothes have
patches all over them and he talks broad Yorkshire, but--but if an angel
did come to Yorkshire and live on the moor--if there was a Yorkshire
angel--I believe he'd understand the green things and know how to make
them grow and he would know how to talk to the wild creatures as Dickon
does and they'd know he was friends for sure."

"I shouldn't mind Dickon looking at me," said Colin; "I want to see
him."

"I'm glad you said that," answered Mary, "because--because--"

Quite suddenly it came into her mind that this was the minute to tell
him. Colin knew something new was coming.

"Because what?" he cried eagerly.

Mary was so anxious that she got up from her stool and came to him and
caught hold of both his hands.

"Can I trust you? I trusted Dickon because birds trusted him. Can I
trust you--for sure--_for sure_?" she implored.

Her face was so solemn that he almost whispered his answer.

"Yes--yes!"

"Well, Dickon will come to see you to-morrow morning, and he'll bring
his creatures with him."

"Oh! Oh!" Colin cried out in delight.

"But that's not all," Mary went on, almost pale with solemn excitement.
"The rest is better. There is a door into the garden. I found it. It is
under the ivy on the wall."

If he had been a strong healthy boy Colin would probably have shouted
"Hooray! Hooray! Hooray!" but he was weak and rather hysterical; his
eyes grew bigger and bigger and he gasped for breath.

"Oh! Mary!" he cried out with a half sob. "Shall I see it? Shall I get
into it? Shall I _live_ to get into it?" and he clutched her hands and
dragged her toward him.

"Of course you'll see it!" snapped Mary indignantly. "Of course you'll
live to get into it! Don't be silly!"

And she was so un-hysterical and natural and childish that she brought
him to his senses and he began to laugh at himself and a few minutes
afterward she was sitting on her stool again telling him not what she
imagined the secret garden to be like but what it really was, and
Colin's aches and tiredness were forgotten and he was listening
enraptured.

"It is just what you thought it would be," he said at last. "It sounds
just as if you had really seen it. You know I said that when you told me
first."

Mary hesitated about two minutes and then boldly spoke the truth.

"I had seen it--and I had been in," she said. "I found the key and got
in weeks ago. But I daren't tell you--I daren't because I was so afraid
I couldn't trust you--_for sure_!"




CHAPTER XIX

"IT HAS COME!"


Of course Dr. Craven had been sent for the morning after Colin had had
his tantrum. He was always sent for at once when such a thing occurred
and he always found, when he arrived, a white shaken boy lying on his
bed, sulky and still so hysterical that he was ready to break into fresh
sobbing at the least word. In fact, Dr. Craven dreaded and detested the
difficulties of these visits. On this occasion he was away from
Misselthwaite Manor until afternoon.

"How is he?" he asked Mrs. Medlock rather irritably when he arrived. "He
will break a blood-vessel in one of those fits some day. The boy is half
insane with hysteria and self-indulgence."

"Well, sir," answered Mrs. Medlock, "you'll scarcely believe your eyes
when you see him. That plain sour-faced child that's almost as bad as
himself has just bewitched him. How she's done it there's no telling.
The Lord knows she's nothing to look at and you scarcely ever hear her
speak, but she did what none of us dare do. She just flew at him like a
little cat last night, and stamped her feet and ordered him to stop
screaming, and somehow she startled him so that he actually did stop,
and this afternoon--well just come up and see, sir. It's past
crediting."

The scene which Dr. Craven beheld when he entered his patient's room was
indeed rather astonishing to him. As Mrs. Medlock opened the door he
heard laughing and chattering. Colin was on his sofa in his
dressing-gown and he was sitting up quite straight looking at a picture
in one of the garden books and talking to the plain child who at that
moment could scarcely be called plain at all because her face was so
glowing with enjoyment.

"Those long spires of blue ones--we'll have a lot of those," Colin was
announcing. "They're called Del-phin-iums."

"Dickon says they're larkspurs made big and grand," cried Mistress Mary.
"There are clumps there already."

Then they saw Dr. Craven and stopped. Mary became quite still and Colin
looked fretful.

"I am sorry to hear you were ill last night, my boy," Dr. Craven said a
trifle nervously. He was rather a nervous man.

"I'm better now--much better," Colin answered, rather like a Rajah.
"I'm going out in my chair in a day or two if it is fine. I want some
fresh air."

Dr. Craven sat down by him and felt his pulse and looked at him
curiously.

"It must be a very fine day," he said, "and you must be very careful not
to tire yourself."

"Fresh air won't tire me," said the young Rajah.

As there had been occasions when this same young gentleman had shrieked
aloud with rage and had insisted that fresh air would give him cold and
kill him, it is not to be wondered at that his doctor felt somewhat
startled.

"I thought you did not like fresh air," he said.

"I don't when I am by myself," replied the Rajah; "but my cousin is
going out with me."

"And the nurse, of course?" suggested Dr. Craven.

"No, I will not have the nurse," so magnificently that Mary could not
help remembering how the young native Prince had looked with his
diamonds and emeralds and pearls stuck all over him and the great rubies
on the small dark hand he had waved to command his servants to approach
with salaams and receive his orders.

"My cousin knows how to take care of me. I am always better when she is
with me. She made me better last night. A very strong boy I know will
push my carriage."

Dr. Craven felt rather alarmed. If this tiresome hysterical boy should
chance to get well he himself would lose all chance of inheriting
Misselthwaite; but he was not an unscrupulous man, though he was a weak
one, and he did not intend to let him run into actual danger.

"He must be a strong boy and a steady boy," he said. "And I must know
something about him. Who is he? What is his name?"

"It's Dickon," Mary spoke up suddenly. She felt somehow that everybody
who knew the moor must know Dickon. And she was right, too. She saw that
in a moment Dr. Craven's serious face relaxed into a relieved smile.

"Oh, Dickon," he said. "If it is Dickon you will be safe enough. He's as
strong as a moor pony, is Dickon."

"And he's trusty," said Mary. "He's th' trustiest lad i' Yorkshire." She
had been talking Yorkshire to Colin and she forgot herself.

"Did Dickon teach you that?" asked Dr. Craven, laughing outright.

"I'm learning it as if it was French," said Mary rather coldly. "It's
like a native dialect in India. Very clever people try to learn them. I
like it and so does Colin."

"Well, well," he said. "If it amuses you perhaps it won't do you any
harm. Did you take your bromide last night, Colin?"

"No," Colin answered. "I wouldn't take it at first and after Mary made
me quiet she talked me to sleep--in a low voice--about the spring
creeping into a garden."

"That sounds soothing," said Dr. Craven, more perplexed than ever and
glancing sideways at Mistress Mary sitting on her stool and looking down
silently at the carpet. "You are evidently better, but you must
remember--"

"I don't want to remember," interrupted the Rajah, appearing again.
"When I lie by myself and remember I begin to have pains everywhere and
I think of things that make me begin to scream because I hate them so.
If there was a doctor anywhere who could make you forget you were ill
instead of remembering it I would have him brought here." And he waved a
thin hand which ought really to have been covered with royal signet
rings made of rubies. "It is because my cousin makes me forget that she
makes me better."

Dr. Craven had never made such a short stay after a "tantrum"; usually
he was obliged to remain a very long time and do a great many things.
This afternoon he did not give any medicine or leave any new orders and
he was spared any disagreeable scenes. When he went down-stairs he
looked very thoughtful and when he talked to Mrs. Medlock in the library
she felt that he was a much puzzled man.

"Well, sir," she ventured, "could you have believed it?"

"It is certainly a new state of affairs," said the doctor. "And there's
no denying it is better than the old one."

"I believe Susan Sowerby's right--I do that," said Mrs. Medlock. "I
stopped in her cottage on my way to Thwaite yesterday and had a bit of
talk with her. And she says to me, 'Well, Sarah Ann, she mayn't be a
good child, an' she mayn't be a pretty one, but she's a child, an'
children needs children.' We went to school together, Susan Sowerby and
me."

"She's the best sick nurse I know," said Dr. Craven. "When I find her in
a cottage I know the chances are that I shall save my patient."

Mrs. Medlock smiled. She was fond of Susan Sowerby.

"She's got a way with her, has Susan," she went on quite volubly. "I've
been thinking all morning of one thing she said yesterday. She says,
'Once when I was givin' th' children a bit of a preach after they'd been
fightin' I ses to 'em all, "When I was at school my jography told as
th' world was shaped like a orange an' I found out before I was ten
that th' whole orange doesn't belong to nobody. No one owns more than
his bit of a quarter an' there's times it seems like there's not enow
quarters to go round. But don't you--none o' you--think as you own th'
whole orange or you'll find out you're mistaken, an' you won't find it
out without hard knocks." What children learns from children,' she says,
'is that there's no sense in grabbin' at th' whole orange--peel an' all.
If you do you'll likely not get even th' pips, an' them's too bitter to
eat.'"

"She's a shrewd woman," said Dr. Craven, putting on his coat.

"Well, she's got a way of saying things," ended Mrs. Medlock, much
pleased. "Sometimes I've said to her, 'Eh! Susan, if you was a different
woman an' didn't talk such broad Yorkshire I've seen the times when I
should have said you was clever.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

That night Colin slept without once awakening and when he opened his
eyes in the morning he lay still and smiled without knowing it--smiled
because he felt so curiously comfortable. It was actually nice to be
awake, and he turned over and stretched his limbs luxuriously. He felt
as if tight strings which had held him had loosened themselves and let
him go. He did not know that Dr. Craven would have said that his nerves
had relaxed and rested themselves. Instead of lying and staring at the
wall and wishing he had not awakened, his mind was full of the plans he
and Mary had made yesterday, of pictures of the garden and of Dickon and
his wild creatures. It was so nice to have things to think about. And he
had not been awake more than ten minutes when he heard feet running
along the corridor and Mary was at the door. The next minute she was in
the room and had run across to his bed, bringing with her a waft of
fresh air full of the scent of the morning.

"You've been out! You've been out! There's that nice smell of leaves!"
he cried.

She had been running and her hair was loose and blown and she was bright
with the air and pink-cheeked, though he could not see it.

"It's so beautiful!" she said, a little breathless with her speed. "You
never saw anything so beautiful! It has _come_! I thought it had come
that other morning, but it was only coming. It is here now! It has come,
the Spring! Dickon says so!"

"Has it?" cried Colin, and though he really knew nothing about it he
felt his heart beat. He actually sat up in bed.

"Open the window!" he added, laughing half with joyful excitement and
half at his own fancy. "Perhaps we may hear golden trumpets!"

And though he laughed, Mary was at the window in a moment and in a
moment more it was opened wide and freshness and softness and scents and
birds' songs were pouring through.

"That's fresh air," she said. "Lie on your back and draw in long breaths
of it. That's what Dickon does when he's lying on the moor. He says he
feels it in his veins and it makes him strong and he feels as if he
could live forever and ever. Breathe it and breathe it."

She was only repeating what Dickon had told her, but she caught Colin's
fancy.

"'Forever and ever'! Does it make him feel like that?" he said, and he
did as she told him, drawing in long deep breaths over and over again
until he felt that something quite new and delightful was happening to
him.

Mary was at his bedside again.

"Things are crowding up out of the earth," she ran on in a hurry. "And
there are flowers uncurling and buds on everything and the green veil
has covered nearly all the gray and the birds are in such a hurry about
their nests for fear they may be too late that some of them are even
fighting for places in the secret garden. And the rose-bushes look as
wick as wick can be, and there are primroses in the lanes and woods, and
the seeds we planted are up, and Dickon has brought the fox and the crow
and the squirrels and a new-born lamb."

And then she paused for breath. The new-born lamb Dickon had found three
days before lying by its dead mother among the gorse bushes on the moor.
It was not the first motherless lamb he had found and he knew what to do
with it. He had taken it to the cottage wrapped in his jacket and he had
let it lie near the fire and had fed it with warm milk. It was a soft
thing with a darling silly baby face and legs rather long for its body.
Dickon had carried it over the moor in his arms and its feeding bottle
was in his pocket with a squirrel, and when Mary had sat under a tree
with its limp warmness huddled on her lap she had felt as if she were
too full of strange joy to speak. A lamb--a lamb! A living lamb who lay
on your lap like a baby!

She was describing it with great joy and Colin was listening and drawing
in long breaths of air when the nurse entered. She started a little at
the sight of the open window. She had sat stifling in the room many a
warm day because her patient was sure that open windows gave people
cold.

"Are you sure you are not chilly, Master Colin?" she inquired.

"No," was the answer. "I am breathing long breaths of fresh air. It
makes you strong. I am going to get up to the sofa for breakfast and my
cousin will have breakfast with me."

The nurse went away, concealing a smile, to give the order for two
breakfasts. She found the servants' hall a more amusing place than the
invalid's chamber and just now everybody wanted to hear the news from
up-stairs. There was a great deal of joking about the unpopular young
recluse who, as the cook said, "had found his master, and good for him."
The servants' hall had been very tired of the tantrums, and the butler,
who was a man with a family, had more than once expressed his opinion
that the invalid would be all the better "for a good hiding."

When Colin was on his sofa and the breakfast for two was put upon the
table he made an announcement to the nurse in his most Rajah-like
manner.

"A boy, and a fox, and a crow, and two squirrels, and a new-born lamb,
are coming to see me this morning. I want them brought up-stairs as soon
as they come," he said. "You are not to begin playing with the animals
in the servants' hall and keep them there. I want them here."

The nurse gave a slight gasp and tried to conceal it with a cough.

"Yes, sir," she answered.

"I'll tell you what you can do," added Colin, waving his hand. "You can
tell Martha to bring them here. The boy is Martha's brother. His name is
Dickon and he is an animal charmer."

"I hope the animals won't bite, Master Colin," said the nurse.

"I told you he was a charmer," said Colin austerely. "Charmers' animals
never bite."

"There are snake-charmers in India," said Mary; "and they can put their
snakes' heads in their mouths."

"Goodness!" shuddered the nurse.

They ate their breakfast with the morning air pouring in upon them.
Colin's breakfast was a very good one and Mary watched him with serious
interest.

"You will begin to get fatter just as I did," she said. "I never wanted
my breakfast when I was in India and now I always want it."

"I wanted mine this morning," said Colin. "Perhaps it was the fresh air.
When do you think Dickon will come?"

He was not long in coming. In about ten minutes Mary held up her hand.

"Listen!" she said. "Did you hear a caw?"

Colin listened and heard it, the oddest sound in the world to hear
inside a house, a hoarse "caw-caw."

"Yes," he answered.

"That's Soot," said Mary. "Listen again! Do you hear a bleat--a tiny
one?"

"Oh, yes!" cried Colin, quite flushing.

"That's the new-born lamb," said Mary. "He's coming."

Dickon's moorland boots were thick and clumsy and though he tried to
walk quietly they made a clumping sound as he walked through the long
corridors. Mary and Colin heard him marching--marching, until he passed
through the tapestry door on to the soft carpet of Colin's own passage.

"If you please, sir," announced Martha, opening the door, "if you
please, sir, here's Dickon an' his creatures."

[Illustration: "DICKON CAME IN SMILING HIS NICEST WIDE SMILE."--_Page
251_]

Dickon came in smiling his nicest wide smile. The new-born lamb was in
his arms and the little red fox trotted by his side. Nut sat on his left
shoulder and Soot on his right and Shell's head and paws peeped out of
his coat pocket.

Colin slowly sat up and stared and stared--as he had stared when he
first saw Mary; but this was a stare of wonder and delight. The truth
was that in spite of all he had heard he had not in the least understood
what this boy would be like and that his fox and his crow and his
squirrels and his lamb were so near to him and his friendliness that
they seemed almost to be part of himself. Colin had never talked to a
boy in his life and he was so overwhelmed by his own pleasure and
curiosity that he did not even think of speaking.

But Dickon did not feel the least shy or awkward. He had not felt
embarrassed because the crow had not known his language and had only
stared and had not spoken to him the first time they met. Creatures were
always like that until they found out about you. He walked over to
Colin's sofa and put the new-born lamb quietly on his lap, and
immediately the little creature turned to the warm velvet dressing-gown
and began to nuzzle and nuzzle into its folds and butt its tight-curled
head with soft impatience against his side. Of course no boy could have
helped speaking then.

"What is it doing?" cried Colin. "What does it want?"

"It wants its mother," said Dickon, smiling more and more. "I brought it
to thee a bit hungry because I knowed tha'd like to see it feed."

He knelt down by the sofa and took a feeding-bottle from his pocket.

"Come on, little 'un," he said, turning the small woolly white head with
a gentle brown hand. "This is what tha's after. Tha'll get more out o'
this than tha' will out o' silk velvet coats. There now," and he pushed
the rubber tip of the bottle into the nuzzling mouth and the lamb began
to suck it with ravenous ecstasy.

After that there was no wondering what to say. By the time the lamb fell
asleep questions poured forth and Dickon answered them all. He told them
how he had found the lamb just as the sun was rising three mornings ago.
He had been standing on the moor listening to a skylark and watching him
swing higher and higher into the sky until he was only a speck in the
heights of blue.

"I'd almost lost him but for his song an' I was wonderin' how a chap
could hear it when it seemed as if he'd get out o' th' world in a
minute--an' just then I heard somethin' else far off among th' gorse
bushes. It was a weak bleatin' an' I knowed it was a new lamb as was
hungry an' I knowed it wouldn't be hungry if it hadn't lost its mother
somehow, so I set off searchin'. Eh! I did have a look for it. I went in
an' out among th' gorse bushes an' round an' round an' I always seemed
to take th' wrong turnin'. But at last I seed a bit o' white by a rock
on top o' th' moor an' I climbed up an' found th' little 'un half dead
wi' cold an' clemmin'."

While he talked, Soot flew solemnly in and out of the open window and
cawed remarks about the scenery while Nut and Shell made excursions into
the big trees outside and ran up and down trunks and explored branches.
Captain curled up near Dickon, who sat on the hearth-rug from
preference.

They looked at the pictures in the gardening books and Dickon knew all
the flowers by their country names and knew exactly which ones were
already growing in the secret garden.

"I couldna' say that there name," he said, pointing to one under which
was written "Aquilegia," "but us calls that a columbine, an' that there
one it's a snapdragon and they both grow wild in hedges, but these is
garden ones an' they're bigger an' grander. There's some big clumps o'
columbine in th' garden. They'll look like a bed o' blue an' white
butterflies flutterin' when they're out."

"I'm going to see them," cried Colin. "I am going to see them!"

"Aye, that tha' mun," said Mary quite seriously. "An tha' munnot lose no
time about it."




CHAPTER XX

"I SHALL LIVE FOREVER--AND EVER--AND EVER!"


But they were obliged to wait more than a week because first there came
some very windy days and then Colin was threatened with a cold, which
two things happening one after the other would no doubt have thrown him
into a rage but that there was so much careful and mysterious planning
to do and almost every day Dickon came in, if only for a few minutes, to
talk about what was happening on the moor and in the lanes and hedges
and on the borders of streams. The things he had to tell about otters'
and badgers' and water-rats' houses, not to mention birds' nests and
field-mice and their burrows, were enough to make you almost tremble
with excitement when you heard all the intimate details from an animal
charmer and realized with what thrilling eagerness and anxiety the whole
busy underworld was working.

"They're same as us," said Dickon, "only they have to build their homes
every year. An' it keeps 'em so busy they fair scuffle to get 'em
done."

The most absorbing thing, however, was the preparations to be made
before Colin could be transported with sufficient secrecy to the garden.
No one must see the chair-carriage and Dickon and Mary after they turned
a certain corner of the shrubbery and entered upon the walk outside the
ivied walls. As each day passed, Colin had become more and more fixed in
his feeling that the mystery surrounding the garden was one of its
greatest charms. Nothing must spoil that. No one must ever suspect that
they had a secret. People must think that he was simply going out with
Mary and Dickon because he liked them and did not object to their
looking at him. They had long and quite delightful talks about their
route. They would go up this path and down that one and cross the other
and go round among the fountain flower-beds as if they were looking at
the "bedding-out plants" the head gardener, Mr. Roach, had been having
arranged. That would seem such a rational thing to do that no one would
think it at all mysterious. They would turn into the shrubbery walks and
lose themselves until they came to the long walls. It was almost as
serious and elaborately thought out as the plans of march made by great
generals in time of war.

Rumors of the new and curious things which were occurring in the
invalid's apartments had of course filtered through the servants' hall
into the stable yards and out among the gardeners, but notwithstanding
this, Mr. Roach was startled one day when he received orders from Master
Colin's room to the effect that he must report himself in the apartment
no outsider had ever seen, as the invalid himself desired to speak to
him.

"Well, well," he said to himself as he hurriedly changed his coat,
"what's to do now? His Royal Highness that wasn't to be looked at
calling up a man he's never set eyes on."

Mr. Roach was not without curiosity. He had never caught even a glimpse
of the boy and had heard a dozen exaggerated stories about his uncanny
looks and ways and his insane tempers. The thing he had heard oftenest
was that he might die at any moment and there had been numerous fanciful
descriptions of a humped back and helpless limbs, given by people who
had never seen him.

"Things are changing in this house, Mr. Roach," said Mrs. Medlock, as
she led him up the back staircase to the corridor on to which opened the
hitherto mysterious chamber.

"Let's hope they're changing for the better, Mrs. Medlock," he
answered.

"They couldn't well change for the worse," she continued; "and queer as
it all is there's them as finds their duties made a lot easier to stand
up under. Don't you be surprised, Mr. Roach, if you find yourself in the
middle of a menagerie and Martha Sowerby's Dickon more at home than you
or me could ever be."

There really was a sort of Magic about Dickon, as Mary always privately
believed. When Mr. Roach heard his name he smiled quite leniently.

"He'd be at home in Buckingham Palace or at the bottom of a coal mine,"
he said. "And yet it's not impudence, either. He's just fine, is that
lad."

It was perhaps well he had been prepared or he might have been startled.
When the bedroom door was opened a large crow, which seemed quite at
home perched on the high back of a carven chair, announced the entrance
of a visitor by saying "Caw--Caw" quite loudly. In spite of Mrs.
Medlock's warning, Mr. Roach only just escaped being sufficiently
undignified to jump backward.

The young Rajah was neither in bed nor on his sofa. He was sitting in an
armchair and a young lamb was standing by him shaking its tail in
feeding-lamb fashion as Dickon knelt giving it milk from its bottle. A
squirrel was perched on Dickon's bent back attentively nibbling a nut.
The little girl from India was sitting on a big footstool looking on.

"Here is Mr. Roach, Master Colin," said Mrs. Medlock.

The young Rajah turned and looked his servitor over--at least that was
what the head gardener felt happened.

"Oh, you are Roach, are you?" he said. "I sent for you to give you some
very important orders."

"Very good, sir," answered Roach, wondering if he was to receive
instructions to fell all the oaks in the park or to transform the
orchards into water-gardens.

"I am going out in my chair this afternoon," said Colin. "If the fresh
air agrees with me I may go out every day. When I go, none of the
gardeners are to be anywhere near the Long Walk by the garden walls. No
one is to be there. I shall go out about two o'clock and every one must
keep away until I send word that they may go back to their work."

"Very good, sir," replied Mr. Roach, much relieved to hear that the oaks
might remain and that the orchards were safe.

"Mary," said Colin, turning to her, "what is that thing you say in India
when you have finished talking and want people to go?"

"You say, 'You have my permission to go,'" answered Mary.

The Rajah waved his hand.

"You have my permission to go, Roach," he said. "But, remember, this is
very important."

"Caw--Caw!" remarked the crow hoarsely but not impolitely.

"Very good, sir. Thank you, sir," said Mr. Roach, and Mrs. Medlock took
him out of the room.

Outside in the corridor, being a rather good-natured man, he smiled
until he almost laughed.

"My word!" he said, "he's got a fine lordly way with him, hasn't he?
You'd think he was a whole Royal Family rolled into one--Prince Consort
and all."

"Eh!" protested Mrs. Medlock, "we've had to let him trample all over
every one of us ever since he had feet and he thinks that's what folks
was born for."

"Perhaps he'll grow out of it, if he lives," suggested Mr. Roach.

"Well, there's one thing pretty sure," said Mrs. Medlock. "If he does
live and that Indian child stays here I'll warrant she teaches him that
the whole orange does not belong to him, as Susan Sowerby says. And
he'll be likely to find out the size of his own quarter."

Inside the room Colin was leaning back on his cushions.

"It's all safe now," he said. "And this afternoon I shall see it--this
afternoon I shall be in it!"

Dickon went back to the garden with his creatures and Mary stayed with
Colin. She did not think he looked tired but he was very quiet before
their lunch came and he was quiet while they were eating it. She
wondered why and asked him about it.

"What big eyes you've got, Colin," she said. "When you are thinking they
get as big as saucers. What are you thinking about now?"

"I can't help thinking about what it will look like," he answered.

"The garden?" asked Mary.

"The springtime," he said. "I was thinking that I've really never seen
it before. I scarcely ever went out and when I did go I never looked at
it. I didn't even think about it."

"I never saw it in India because there wasn't any," said Mary.

Shut in and morbid as his life had been, Colin had more imagination than
she had and at least he had spent a good deal of time looking at
wonderful books and pictures.

"That morning when you ran in and said 'It's come! It's come!' you made
me feel quite queer. It sounded as if things were coming with a great
procession and big bursts and wafts of music. I've a picture like it in
one of my books--crowds of lovely people and children with garlands and
branches with blossoms on them, every one laughing and dancing and
crowding and playing on pipes. That was why I said, 'Perhaps we shall
hear golden trumpets' and told you to throw open the window."

"How funny!" said Mary. "That's really just what it feels like. And if
all the flowers and leaves and green things and birds and wild creatures
danced past at once, what a crowd it would be! I'm sure they'd dance and
sing and flute and that would be the wafts of music."

They both laughed but it was not because the idea was laughable but
because they both so liked it.

A little later the nurse made Colin ready. She noticed that instead of
lying like a log while his clothes were put on he sat up and made some
efforts to help himself, and he talked and laughed with Mary all the
time.

"This is one of his good days, sir," she said to Dr. Craven, who
dropped in to inspect him. "He's in such good spirits that it makes him
stronger."

"I'll call in again later in the afternoon, after he has come in," said
Dr. Craven. "I must see how the going out agrees with him. I wish," in a
very low voice, "that he would let you go with him."

"I'd rather give up the case this moment, sir, than even stay here while
it's suggested," answered the nurse with sudden firmness.

"I hadn't really decided to suggest it," said the doctor, with his
slight nervousness. "We'll try the experiment. Dickon's a lad I'd trust
with a new-born child."

The strongest footman in the house carried Colin down-stairs and put him
in his wheeled chair near which Dickon waited outside. After the
manservant had arranged his rugs and cushions the Rajah waved his hand
to him and to the nurse.

"You have my permission to go," he said, and they both disappeared
quickly and it must be confessed giggled when they were safely inside
the house.

Dickon began to push the wheeled chair slowly and steadily. Mistress
Mary walked beside it and Colin leaned back and lifted his face to the
sky. The arch of it looked very high and the small snowy clouds seemed
like white birds floating on outspread wings below its crystal blueness.
The wind swept in soft big breaths down from the moor and was strange
with a wild clear scented sweetness. Colin kept lifting his thin chest
to draw it in, and his big eyes looked as if it were they which were
listening--listening, instead of his ears.

"There are so many sounds of singing and humming and calling out," he
said. "What is that scent the puffs of wind bring?"

"It's gorse on th' moor that's openin' out," answered Dickon. "Eh! th'
bees are at it wonderful to-day."

Not a human creature was to be caught sight of in the paths they took.
In fact every gardener or gardener's lad had been witched away. But they
wound in and out among the shrubbery and out and round the fountain
beds, following their carefully planned route for the mere mysterious
pleasure of it. But when at last they turned into the Long Walk by the
ivied walls the excited sense of an approaching thrill made them, for
some curious reason they could not have explained, begin to speak in
whispers.

"This is it," breathed Mary. "This is where I used to walk up and down
and wonder and wonder."

"Is it?" cried Colin, and his eyes began to search the ivy with eager
curiousness. "But I can see nothing," he whispered. "There is no door."

"That's what I thought," said Mary.

Then there was a lovely breathless silence and the chair wheeled on.

"That is the garden where Ben Weatherstaff works," said Mary.

"Is it?" said Colin.

A few yards more and Mary whispered again.

"This is where the robin flew over the wall," she said.

"Is it?" cried Colin. "Oh! I wish he'd come again!"

"And that," said Mary with solemn delight, pointing under a big lilac
bush, "is where he perched on the little heap of earth and showed me the
key."

Then Colin sat up.

"Where? Where? There?" he cried, and his eyes were as big as the wolf's
in Red Riding-Hood, when Red Riding-Hood felt called upon to remark on
them. Dickon stood still and the wheeled chair stopped.

"And this," said Mary, stepping on to the bed close to the ivy, "is
where I went to talk to him when he chirped at me from the top of the
wall. And this is the ivy the wind blew back," and she took hold of the
hanging green curtain.

"Oh! is it--is it!" gasped Colin.

"And here is the handle, and here is the door. Dickon push him in--push
him in quickly!"

And Dickon did it with one strong, steady, splendid push.

But Colin had actually dropped back against his cushions, even though he
gasped with delight, and he had covered his eyes with his hands and held
them there shutting out everything until they were inside and the chair
stopped as if by magic and the door was closed. Not till then did he
take them away and look round and round and round as Dickon and Mary had
done. And over walls and earth and trees and swinging sprays and
tendrils the fair green veil of tender little leaves had crept, and in
the grass under the trees and the gray urns in the alcoves and here and
there everywhere were touches or splashes of gold and purple and white
and the trees were showing pink and snow above his head and there were
fluttering of wings and faint sweet pipes and humming and scents and
scents. And the sun fell warm upon his face like a hand with a lovely
touch. And in wonder Mary and Dickon stood and stared at him. He looked
so strange and different because a pink glow of color had actually
crept all over him--ivory face and neck and hands and all.

"I shall get well! I shall get well!" he cried out. "Mary! Dickon! I
shall get well! And I shall live forever and ever and ever!"




CHAPTER XXI

BEN WEATHERSTAFF


One of the strange things about living in the world is that it is only
now and then one is quite sure one is going to live forever and ever and
ever. One knows it sometimes when one gets up at the tender solemn
dawn-time and goes out and stands alone and throws one's head far back
and looks up and up and watches the pale sky slowly changing and
flushing and marvelous unknown things happening until the East almost
makes one cry out and one's heart stands still at the strange unchanging
majesty of the rising of the sun--which has been happening every morning
for thousands and thousands and thousands of years. One knows it then
for a moment or so. And one knows it sometimes when one stands by
oneself in a wood at sunset and the mysterious deep gold stillness
slanting through and under the branches seems to be saying slowly again
and again something one cannot quite hear, however much one tries. Then
sometimes the immense quiet of the dark blue at night with millions of
stars waiting and watching makes one sure; and sometimes a sound of
far-off music makes it true; and sometimes a look in some one's eyes.

And it was like that with Colin when he first saw and heard and felt the
Springtime inside the four high walls of a hidden garden. That afternoon
the whole world seemed to devote itself to being perfect and radiantly
beautiful and kind to one boy. Perhaps out of pure heavenly goodness the
spring came and crowded everything it possibly could into that one
place. More than once Dickon paused in what he was doing and stood still
with a sort of growing wonder in his eyes, shaking his head softly.

"Eh! it is graidely," he said. "I'm twelve goin' on thirteen an' there's
a lot o' afternoons in thirteen years, but seems to me like I never seed
one as graidely as this 'ere."

"Aye, it is a graidely one," said Mary, and she sighed for mere joy.
"I'll warrant it's th' graidelest one as ever was in this world."

"Does tha' think," said Colin with dreamy carefulness, "as happen it was
made loike this 'ere all o' purpose for me?"

"My word!" cried Mary admiringly, "that there is a bit o' good
Yorkshire. Tha'rt shapin' first-rate--that tha' art."

And delight reigned.

They drew the chair under the plum-tree, which was snow-white with
blossoms and musical with bees. It was like a king's canopy, a fairy
king's. There were flowering cherry-trees near and apple-trees whose
buds were pink and white, and here and there one had burst open wide.
Between the blossoming branches of the canopy bits of blue sky looked
down like wonderful eyes.

Mary and Dickon worked a little here and there and Colin watched them.
They brought him things to look at--buds which were opening, buds which
were tight closed, bits of twig whose leaves were just showing green,
the feather of a woodpecker which had dropped on the grass, the empty
shell of some bird early hatched. Dickon pushed the chair slowly round
and round the garden, stopping every other moment to let him look at
wonders springing out of the earth or trailing down from trees. It was
like being taken in state round the country of a magic king and queen
and shown all the mysterious riches it contained.

"I wonder if we shall see the robin?" said Colin.

"Tha'll see him often enow after a bit," answered Dickon. "When th' eggs
hatches out th' little chap he'll be kep' so busy it'll make his head
swim. Tha'll see him flyin' backward an' for'ard carryin' worms nigh as
big as himsel' an' that much noise goin' on in th' nest when he gets
there as fair flusters him so as he scarce knows which big mouth to drop
th' first piece in. An' gapin' beaks an' squawks on every side. Mother
says as when she sees th' work a robin has to keep them gapin' beaks
filled, she feels like she was a lady with nothin' to do. She says she's
seen th' little chaps when it seemed like th' sweat must be droppin' off
'em, though folk can't see it."

This made them giggle so delightedly that they were obliged to cover
their mouths with their hands, remembering that they must not be heard.
Colin had been instructed as to the law of whispers and low voices
several days before. He liked the mysteriousness of it and did his best,
but in the midst of excited enjoyment it is rather difficult never to
laugh above a whisper.

Every moment of the afternoon was full of new things and every hour the
sunshine grew more golden. The wheeled chair had been drawn back under
the canopy and Dickon had sat down on the grass and had just drawn out
his pipe when Colin saw something he had not had time to notice before.

"That's a very old tree over there, isn't it?" he said.

Dickon looked across the grass at the tree and Mary looked and there was
a brief moment of stillness.

"Yes," answered Dickon, after it, and his low voice had a very gentle
sound.

Mary gazed at the tree and thought.

"The branches are quite gray and there's not a single leaf anywhere,"
Colin went on. "It's quite dead, isn't it?"

"Aye," admitted Dickon. "But them roses as has climbed all over it will
near hide every bit o' th' dead wood when they're full o' leaves an'
flowers. It won't look dead then. It'll be th' prettiest of all."

Mary still gazed at the tree and thought.

"It looks as if a big branch had been broken off," said Colin. "I wonder
how it was done."

"It's been done many a year," answered Dickon. "Eh!" with a sudden
relieved start and laying his hand on Colin. "Look at that robin! There
he is! He's been foragin' for his mate."

Colin was almost too late but he just caught sight of him, the flash of
red-breasted bird with something in his beak. He darted through the
greenness and into the close-grown corner and was out of sight. Colin
leaned back on his cushion again, laughing a little.

"He's taking her tea to her. Perhaps it's five o'clock. I think I'd like
some tea myself."

And so they were safe.

"It was Magic which sent the robin," said Mary secretly to Dickon
afterward. "I know it was Magic." For both she and Dickon had been
afraid Colin might ask something about the tree whose branch had broken
off ten years ago and they had talked it over together and Dickon had
stood and rubbed his head in a troubled way.

"We mun look as if it wasn't no different from th' other trees," he had
said. "We couldn't never tell him how it broke, poor lad. If he says
anything about it we mun--we mun try to look cheerful."

"Aye, that we mun," had answered Mary.

But she had not felt as if she looked cheerful when she gazed at the
tree. She wondered and wondered in those few moments if there was any
reality in that other thing Dickon had said. He had gone on rubbing his
rust-red hair in a puzzled way, but a nice comforted look had begun to
grow in his blue eyes.

"Mrs. Craven was a very lovely young lady," he had gone on rather
hesitatingly. "An' mother she thinks maybe she's about Misselthwaite
many a time lookin' after Mester Colin, same as all mothers do when
they're took out o' th' world. They have to come back, tha' sees. Happen
she's been in the garden an' happen it was her set us to work, an' told
us to bring him here."

Mary had thought he meant something about Magic. She was a great
believer in Magic. Secretly she quite believed that Dickon worked Magic,
of course good Magic, on everything near him and that was why people
liked him so much and wild creatures knew he was their friend. She
wondered, indeed, if it were not possible that his gift had brought the
robin just at the right moment when Colin asked that dangerous question.
She felt that his Magic was working all the afternoon and making Colin
look like an entirely different boy. It did not seem possible that he
could be the crazy creature who had screamed and beaten and bitten his
pillow. Even his ivory whiteness seemed to change. The faint glow of
color which had shown on his face and neck and hands when he first got
inside the garden really never quite died away. He looked as if he were
made of flesh instead of ivory or wax.

They saw the robin carry food to his mate two or three times, and it was
so suggestive of afternoon tea that Colin felt they must have some.

"Go and make one of the men servants bring some in a basket to the
rhododendron walk," he said. "And then you and Dickon can bring it
here."

It was an agreeable idea, easily carried out, and when the white cloth
was spread upon the grass, with hot tea and buttered toast and crumpets,
a delightfully hungry meal was eaten, and several birds on domestic
errands paused to inquire what was going on and were led into
investigating crumbs with great activity. Nut and Shell whisked up trees
with pieces of cake and Soot took the entire half of a buttered crumpet
into a corner and pecked at and examined and turned it over and made
hoarse remarks about it until he decided to swallow it all joyfully in
one gulp.

The afternoon was dragging toward its mellow hour. The sun was deepening
the gold of its lances, the bees were going home and the birds were
flying past less often. Dickon and Mary were sitting on the grass, the
tea-basket was re-packed ready to be taken back to the house, and Colin
was lying against his cushions with his heavy locks pushed back from his
forehead and his face looking quite a natural color.

"I don't want this afternoon to go," he said; "but I shall come back
to-morrow, and the day after, and the day after, and the day after."

"You'll get plenty of fresh air, won't you?" said Mary.

"I'm going to get nothing else," he answered. "I've seen the spring now
and I'm going to see the summer. I'm going to see everything grow here.
I'm going to grow here myself."

"That tha' will," said Dickon. "Us'll have thee walkin' about here an'
diggin' same as other folk afore long."

Colin flushed tremendously.

"Walk!" he said. "Dig! Shall I?"

Dickon's glance at him was delicately cautious. Neither he nor Mary had
ever asked if anything was the matter with his legs.

"For sure tha' will," he said stoutly. "Tha'--tha's got legs o' thine
own, same as other folks!"

Mary was rather frightened until she heard Colin's answer.

"Nothing really ails them," he said, "but they are so thin and weak.
They shake so that I'm afraid to try to stand on them."

Both Mary and Dickon drew a relieved breath.

"When tha' stops bein' afraid tha'lt stand on 'em," Dickon said with
renewed cheer. "An' tha'lt stop bein' afraid in a bit."

"I shall?" said Colin, and he lay still as if he were wondering about
things.

They were really very quiet for a little while. The sun was dropping
lower. It was that hour when everything stills itself, and they really
had had a busy and exciting afternoon. Colin looked as if he were
resting luxuriously. Even the creatures had ceased moving about and had
drawn together and were resting near them. Soot had perched on a low
branch and drawn up one leg and dropped the gray film drowsily over his
eyes. Mary privately thought he looked as if he might snore in a minute.

In the midst of this stillness it was rather startling when Colin half
lifted his head and exclaimed in a loud suddenly alarmed whisper:

"Who is that man?"

Dickon and Mary scrambled to their feet.

"Man!" they both cried in low quick voices.

Colin pointed to the high wall.

"Look!" he whispered excitedly. "Just look!"

Mary and Dickon wheeled about and looked. There was Ben Weatherstaff's
indignant face glaring at them over the wall from the top of a ladder!
He actually shook his fist at Mary.

"If I wasn't a bachelder, an' tha' was a wench o' mine," he cried, "I'd
give thee a hidin'!"

He mounted another step threateningly as if it were his energetic
intention to jump down and deal with her; but as she came toward him he
evidently thought better of it and stood on the top step of his ladder
shaking his fist down at her.

"I never thowt much o' thee!" he harangued. "I couldna' abide thee th'
first time I set eyes on thee. A scrawny buttermilk-faced young besom,
allus askin' questions an' pokin' tha' nose where it wasna' wanted. I
never knowed how tha' got so thick wi' me. If it hadna' been for th'
robin--Drat him--"

"Ben Weatherstaff," called out Mary, finding her breath. She stood below
him and called up to him with a sort of gasp. "Ben Weatherstaff, it was
the robin who showed me the way!"

Then it did seem as if Ben really would scramble down on her side of the
wall, he was so outraged.

"Tha' young bad 'un!" he called down at her. "Layin' tha' badness on a
robin,--not but what he's impidint enow for anythin'. Him showin' thee
th' way! Him! Eh! tha' young nowt,"--she could see his next words burst
out because he was overpowered by curiosity--"however i' this world did
tha' get in?"

"It was the robin who showed me the way," she protested obstinately. "He
didn't know he was doing it but he did. And I can't tell you from here
while you're shaking your fist at me."

He stopped shaking his fist very suddenly at that very moment and his
jaw actually dropped as he stared over her head at something he saw
coming over the grass toward him.

At the first sound of his torrent of words Colin had been so surprised
that he had only sat up and listened as if he were spellbound. But in
the midst of it he had recovered himself and beckoned imperiously to
Dickon.

"Wheel me over there!" he commanded. "Wheel me quite close and stop
right in front of him!"

And this, if you please, this is what Ben Weatherstaff beheld and which
made his jaw drop. A wheeled chair with luxurious cushions and robes
which came toward him looking rather like some sort of State Coach
because a young Rajah leaned back in it with royal command in his great
black-rimmed eyes and a thin white hand extended haughtily toward him.
And it stopped right under Ben Weatherstaff's nose. It was really no
wonder his mouth dropped open.

"Do you know who I am?" demanded the Rajah.

How Ben Weatherstaff stared! His red old eyes fixed themselves on what
was before him as if he were seeing a ghost. He gazed and gazed and
gulped a lump down his throat and did not say a word.

"Do you know who I am?" demanded Colin still more imperiously. "Answer!"

Ben Weatherstaff put his gnarled hand up and passed it over his eyes and
over his forehead and then he did answer in a queer shaky voice.

"Who tha' art?" he said. "Aye, that I do--wi' tha' mother's eyes starin'
at me out o' tha' face. Lord knows how tha' come here. But tha'rt th'
poor cripple."

Colin forgot that he had ever had a back. His face flushed scarlet and
he sat bolt upright.

"I'm not a cripple!" he cried out furiously. "I'm not!"

"He's not!" cried Mary, almost shouting up the wall in her fierce
indignation. "He's not got a lump as big as a pin! I looked and there
was none there--not one!"

Ben Weatherstaff passed his hand over his forehead again and gazed as if
he could never gaze enough. His hand shook and his mouth shook and his
voice shook. He was an ignorant old man and a tactless old man and he
could only remember the things he had heard.

"Tha'--tha' hasn't got a crooked back?" he said hoarsely.

"No!" shouted Colin.

"Tha'--tha' hasn't got crooked legs?" quavered Ben more hoarsely yet.

It was too much. The strength which Colin usually threw into his
tantrums rushed through him now in a new way. Never yet had he been
accused of crooked legs--even in whispers--and the perfectly simple
belief in their existence which was revealed by Ben Weatherstaff's voice
was more than Rajah flesh and blood could endure. His anger and insulted
pride made him forget everything but this one moment and filled him with
a power he had never known before, an almost unnatural strength.

"Come here!" he shouted to Dickon, and he actually began to tear the
coverings off his lower limbs and disentangle himself. "Come here! Come
here! This minute!"

Dickon was by his side in a second. Mary caught her breath in a short
gasp and felt herself turn pale.

"He can do it! He can do it! He can do it! He can!" she gabbled over to
herself under her breath as fast as ever she could.

There was a brief fierce scramble, the rugs were tossed on to the
ground, Dickon held Colin's arm, the thin legs were out, the thin feet
were on the grass. Colin was standing upright--upright--as straight as
an arrow and looking strangely tall--his head thrown back and his
strange eyes flashing lightning.

"Look at me!" he flung up at Ben Weatherstaff. "Just look at me--you!
Just look at me!"

"He's as straight as I am!" cried Dickon. "He's as straight as any lad
i' Yorkshire!"

What Ben Weatherstaff did Mary thought queer beyond measure. He choked
and gulped and suddenly tears ran down his weather-wrinkled cheeks as he
struck his old hands together.

"Eh!" he burst forth, "th' lies folk tells! Tha'rt as thin as a lath an'
as white as a wraith, but there's not a knob on thee. Tha'lt make a mon
yet. God bless thee!"

Dickon held Colin's arm strongly but the boy had not begun to falter. He
stood straighter and straighter and looked Ben Weatherstaff in the face.

"I'm your master," he said, "when my father is away. And you are to obey
me. This is my garden. Don't dare to say a word about it! You get down
from that ladder and go out to the Long Walk and Miss Mary will meet you
and bring you here. I want to talk to you. We did not want you, but now
you will have to be in the secret. Be quick!"

Ben Weatherstaff's crabbed old face was still wet with that one queer
rush of tears. It seemed as if he could not take his eyes from thin
straight Colin standing on his feet with his head thrown back.

"Eh! lad," he almost whispered. "Eh! my lad!" And then remembering
himself he suddenly touched his hat gardener fashion and said, "Yes,
sir! Yes, sir!" and obediently disappeared as he descended the ladder.




CHAPTER XXII

WHEN THE SUN WENT DOWN


When his head was out of sight Colin turned to Mary.

"Go and meet him," he said; and Mary flew across the grass to the door
under the ivy.

Dickon was watching him with sharp eyes. There were scarlet spots on his
cheeks and he looked amazing, but he showed no signs of falling.

"I can stand," he said, and his head was still held up and he said it
quite grandly.

"I told thee tha' could as soon as tha' stopped bein' afraid," answered
Dickon. "An' tha's stopped."

"Yes, I've stopped," said Colin.

Then suddenly he remembered something Mary had said.

"Are you making Magic?" he asked sharply.

Dickon's curly mouth spread in a cheerful grin.

"Tha's doin' Magic thysel'," he said. "It's same Magic as made these
'ere work out o' th' earth," and he touched with his thick boot a clump
of crocuses in the grass.

Colin looked down at them.

"Aye," he said slowly, "there couldna' be bigger Magic then that
there--there couldna' be."

He drew himself up straighter than ever.

"I'm going to walk to that tree," he said, pointing to one a few feet
away from him. "I'm going to be standing when Weatherstaff comes here. I
can rest against the tree if I like. When I want to sit down I will sit
down, but not before. Bring a rug from the chair."

He walked to the tree and though Dickon held his arm he was wonderfully
steady. When he stood against the tree trunk it was not too plain that
he supported himself against it, and he still held himself so straight
that he looked tall.

When Ben Weatherstaff came through the door in the wall he saw him
standing there and he heard Mary muttering something under her breath.

"What art sayin'?" he asked rather testily because he did not want his
attention distracted from the long thin straight boy figure and proud
face.

But she did not tell him. What she was saying was this:

"You can do it! You can do it! I told you you could! You can do it! You
can do it! You _can_!"

She was saying it to Colin because she wanted to make Magic and keep him
on his feet looking like that. She could not bear that he should give in
before Ben Weatherstaff. He did not give in. She was uplifted by a
sudden feeling that he looked quite beautiful in spite of his thinness.
He fixed his eyes on Ben Weatherstaff in his funny imperious way.

"Look at me!" he commanded. "Look at me all over! Am I a hunchback? Have
I got crooked legs?"

Ben Weatherstaff had not quite got over his emotion, but he had
recovered a little and answered almost in his usual way.

"Not tha'," he said. "Nowt o' th' sort. What's tha' been doin' with
thysel'--? hidin' out o' sight an' lettin' folk think tha' was cripple
an' half-witted?"

"Half-witted!" said Colin angrily. "Who thought that?"

"Lots o' fools," said Ben. "Th' world's full o' jackasses brayin' an'
they never bray nowt but lies. What did tha' shut thysel' up for?"

"Every one thought I was going to die," said Colin shortly. "I'm not!"

And he said it with such decision Ben Weatherstaff looked him over, up
and down, down and up.

"Tha' die!" he said with dry exultation. "Nowt o' th' sort! Tha's got
too much pluck in thee. When I seed thee put tha' legs on th' ground in
such a hurry I knowed tha' was all right. Sit thee down on th' rug a bit
young Mester an' give me thy orders."

There was a queer mixture of crabbed tenderness and shrewd understanding
in his manner. Mary had poured out speech as rapidly as she could as
they had come down the Long Walk. The chief thing to be remembered, she
had told him, was that Colin was getting well--getting well. The garden
was doing it. No one must let him remember about having humps and dying.

The Rajah condescended to seat himself on a rug under the tree.

"What work do you do in the gardens, Weatherstaff?" he inquired.

"Anythin' I'm told to do," answered old Ben. "I'm kep' on by
favor--because she liked me."

"She?" said Colin.

"Tha' mother," answered Ben Weatherstaff.

"My mother?" said Colin, and he looked about him quietly. "This was her
garden, wasn't it?"

"Aye, it was that!" and Ben Weatherstaff looked about him too. "She were
main fond of it."

"It is my garden now, I am fond of it. I shall come here every day,"
announced Colin. "But it is to be a secret. My orders are that no one is
to know that we come here. Dickon and my cousin have worked and made it
come alive. I shall send for you sometimes to help--but you must come
when no one can see you."

Ben Weatherstaff's face twisted itself in a dry old smile.

"I've come here before when no one saw me," he said.

"What!" exclaimed Colin. "When?"

"Th' last time I was here," rubbing his chin and looking round, "was
about two year' ago."

"But no one has been in it for ten years!" cried Colin. "There was no
door!"

"I'm no one," said old Ben dryly. "An' I didn't come through th' door. I
come over th' wall. Th' rheumatics held me back th' last two year'."

"Tha' come an' did a bit o' prunin'!" cried Dickon. "I couldn't make out
how it had been done."

"She was so fond of it--she was!" said Ben Weatherstaff slowly. "An' she
was such a pretty young thing. She says to me once, 'Ben,' says she
laughin', 'if ever I'm ill or if I go away you must take care of my
roses.' When she did go away th' orders was no one was ever to come
nigh. But I come," with grumpy obstinacy. "Over th' wall I come--until
th' rheumatics stopped me--an' I did a bit o' work once a year. She'd
gave her order first."

"It wouldn't have been as wick as it is if tha' hadn't done it," said
Dickon. "I did wonder."

"I'm glad you did it, Weatherstaff," said Colin. "You'll know how to
keep the secret."

"Aye, I'll know, sir," answered Ben. "An' it'll be easier for a man wi'
rheumatics to come in at th' door."

On the grass near the tree Mary had dropped her trowel. Colin stretched
out his hand and took it up. An odd expression came into his face and he
began to scratch at the earth. His thin hand was weak enough but
presently as they watched him--Mary with quite breathless interest--he
drove the end of the trowel into the soil and turned some over.

"You can do it! You can do it!" said Mary to herself. "I tell you, you
can!"

Dickon's round eyes were full of eager curiousness but he said not a
word. Ben Weatherstaff looked on with interested face.

Colin persevered. After he had turned a few trowelfuls of soil he spoke
exultantly to Dickon in his best Yorkshire.

"Tha' said as tha'd have me walkin' about here same as other folk--an'
tha' said tha'd have me diggin'. I thowt tha' was just leein' to please
me. This is only th' first day an' I've walked--an' here I am diggin'."

Ben Weatherstaff's mouth fell open again when he heard him, but he ended
by chuckling.

"Eh!" he said, "that sounds as if tha'd got wits enow. Tha'rt a
Yorkshire lad for sure. An' tha'rt diggin', too. How'd tha' like to
plant a bit o' somethin'? I can get thee a rose in a pot."

"Go and get it!" said Colin, digging excitedly. "Quick! Quick!"

It was done quickly enough indeed. Ben Weatherstaff went his way
forgetting rheumatics. Dickon took his spade and dug the hole deeper and
wider than a new digger with thin white hands could make it. Mary
slipped out to run and bring back a watering-can. When Dickon had
deepened the hole Colin went on turning the soft earth over and over. He
looked up at the sky, flushed and glowing with the strangely new
exercise, slight as it was.

"I want to do it before the sun goes quite--quite down," he said.

Mary thought that perhaps the sun held back a few minutes just on
purpose. Ben Weatherstaff brought the rose in its pot from the
greenhouse. He hobbled over the grass as fast as he could. He had begun
to be excited, too. He knelt down by the hole and broke the pot from the
mould.

"Here, lad," he said, handing the plant to Colin. "Set it in the earth
thysel' same as th' king does when he goes to a new place."

The thin white hands shook a little and Colin's flush grew deeper as he
set the rose in the mould and held it while old Ben made firm the earth.
It was filled in and pressed down and made steady. Mary was leaning
forward on her hands and knees. Soot had flown down and marched forward
to see what was being done. Nut and Shell chattered about it from a
cherry-tree.

"It's planted!" said Colin at last. "And the sun is only slipping over
the edge. Help me up, Dickon. I want to be standing when it goes. That's
part of the Magic."

And Dickon helped him, and the Magic--or whatever it was--so gave him
strength that when the sun did slip over the edge and end the strange
lovely afternoon for them there he actually stood on his two
feet--laughing.




CHAPTER XXIII

MAGIC


Dr. Craven had been waiting some time at the house when they returned to
it. He had indeed begun to wonder if it might not be wise to send some
one out to explore the garden paths. When Colin was brought back to his
room the poor man looked him over seriously.

"You should not have stayed so long," he said. "You must not overexert
yourself."

"I am not tired at all," said Colin. "It has made me well. To-morrow I
am going out in the morning as well as in the afternoon."

"I am not sure that I can allow it," answered Dr. Craven. "I am afraid
it would not be wise."

"It would not be wise to try to stop me," said Colin quite seriously. "I
am going."

Even Mary had found out that one of Colin's chief peculiarities was that
he did not know in the least what a rude little brute he was with his
way of ordering people about. He had lived on a sort of desert island
all his life and as he had been the king of it he had made his own
manners and had had no one to compare himself with. Mary had indeed
been rather like him herself and since she had been at Misselthwaite had
gradually discovered that her own manners had not been of the kind which
is usual or popular. Having made this discovery she naturally thought it
of enough interest to communicate to Colin. So she sat and looked at him
curiously for a few minutes after Dr. Craven had gone. She wanted to
make him ask her why she was doing it and of course she did.

"What are you looking at me for?" he said.

"I'm thinking that I am rather sorry for Dr. Craven."

"So am I," said Colin calmly, but not without an air of some
satisfaction. "He won't get Misselthwaite at all now I'm not going to
die."

"I'm sorry for him because of that, of course," said Mary, "but I was
thinking just then that it must have been very horrid to have had to be
polite for ten years to a boy who was always rude. I would never have
done it."

"Am I rude?" Colin inquired undisturbedly.

"If you had been his own boy and he had been a slapping sort of man,"
said Mary, "he would have slapped you."

"But he daren't," said Colin.

"No, he daren't," answered Mistress Mary, thinking the thing out quite
without prejudice. "Nobody ever dared to do anything you didn't
like--because you were going to die and things like that. You were such
a poor thing."

"But," announced Colin stubbornly, "I am not going to be a poor thing. I
won't let people think I'm one. I stood on my feet this afternoon."

"It is always having your own way that has made you so queer," Mary went
on, thinking aloud.

Colin turned his head, frowning.

"Am I queer?" he demanded.

"Yes," answered Mary, "very. But you needn't be cross," she added
impartially, "because so am I queer--and so is Ben Weatherstaff. But I
am not as queer as I was before I began to like people and before I
found the garden."

"I don't want to be queer," said Colin. "I am not going to be," and he
frowned again with determination.

He was a very proud boy. He lay thinking for a while and then Mary saw
his beautiful smile begin and gradually change his whole face.

"I shall stop being queer," he said, "if I go every day to the garden.
There is Magic in there--good Magic, you know, Mary. I am sure there
is."

"So am I," said Mary.

"Even if it isn't real Magic," Colin said, "we can pretend it is.
_Something_ is there--_something_!"

"It's Magic," said Mary, "but not black. It's as white as snow."

They always called it Magic and indeed it seemed like it in the months
that followed--the wonderful months--the radiant months--the amazing
ones. Oh! the things which happened in that garden! If you have never
had a garden, you cannot understand, and if you have had a garden you
will know that it would take a whole book to describe all that came to
pass there. At first it seemed that green things would never cease
pushing their way through the earth, in the grass, in the beds, even in
the crevices of the walls. Then the green things began to show buds and
the buds began to unfurl and show color, every shade of blue, every
shade of purple, every tint and hue of crimson. In its happy days
flowers had been tucked away into every inch and hole and corner. Ben
Weatherstaff had seen it done and had himself scraped out mortar from
between the bricks of the wall and made pockets of earth for lovely
clinging things to grow on. Iris and white lilies rose out of the grass
in sheaves, and the green alcoves filled themselves with amazing armies
of the blue and white flower lances of tall delphiniums or columbines
or campanulas.

"She was main fond o' them--she was," Ben Weatherstaff said. "She liked
them things as was allus pointin' up to th' blue sky, she used to tell.
Not as she was one o' them as looked down on th' earth--not her. She
just loved it but she said as th' blue sky allus looked so joyful."

The seeds Dickon and Mary had planted grew as if fairies had tended
them. Satiny poppies of all tints danced in the breeze by the score,
gaily defying flowers which had lived in the garden for years and which
it might be confessed seemed rather to wonder how such new people had
got there. And the roses--the roses! Rising out of the grass, tangled
round the sun-dial, wreathing the tree trunks and hanging from their
branches, climbing up the walls and spreading over them with long
garlands falling in cascades--they came alive day by day, hour by hour.
Fair fresh leaves, and buds--and buds--tiny at first but swelling and
working Magic until they burst and uncurled into cups of scent
delicately spilling themselves over their brims and filling the garden
air.

Colin saw it all, watching each change as it took place. Every morning
he was brought out and every hour of each day when it didn't rain he
spent in the garden. Even gray days pleased him. He would lie on the
grass "watching things growing," he said. If you watched long enough, he
declared, you could see buds unsheath themselves. Also you could make
the acquaintance of strange busy insect things running about on various
unknown but evidently serious errands, sometimes carrying tiny scraps of
straw or feather or food, or climbing blades of grass as if they were
trees from whose tops one could look out to explore the country. A mole
throwing up its mound at the end of its burrow and making its way out at
last with the long-nailed paws which looked so like elfish hands, had
absorbed him one whole morning. Ants' ways, beetles' ways, bees' ways,
frogs' ways, birds' ways, plants' ways, gave him a new world to explore
and when Dickon revealed them all and added foxes' ways, otters' ways,
ferrets' ways, squirrels' ways, and trout's and water-rats' and badgers'
ways, there was no end to the things to talk about and think over.

And this was not the half of the Magic. The fact that he had really once
stood on his feet had set Colin thinking tremendously and when Mary told
him of the spell she had worked he was excited and approved of it
greatly. He talked of it constantly.

"Of course there must be lots of Magic in the world," he said wisely
one day, "but people don't know what it is like or how to make it.
Perhaps the beginning is just to say nice things are going to happen
until you make them happen. I am going to try and experiment."

The next morning when they went to the secret garden he sent at once for
Ben Weatherstaff. Ben came as quickly as he could and found the Rajah
standing on his feet under a tree and looking very grand but also very
beautifully smiling.

"Good morning, Ben Weatherstaff," he said. "I want you and Dickon and
Miss Mary to stand in a row and listen to me because I am going to tell
you something very important."

"Aye, aye, sir!" answered Ben Weatherstaff, touching his forehead. (One
of the long concealed charms of Ben Weatherstaff was that in his boyhood
he had once run away to sea and had made voyages. So he could reply like
a sailor.)

"I am going to try a scientific experiment," explained the Rajah. "When
I grow up I am going to make great scientific discoveries and I am going
to begin now with this experiment."

"Aye, aye, sir!" said Ben Weatherstaff promptly, though this was the
first time he had heard of great scientific discoveries.

It was the first time Mary had heard of them, either, but even at this
stage she had begun to realize that, queer as he was, Colin had read
about a great many singular things and was somehow a very convincing
sort of boy. When he held up his head and fixed his strange eyes on you
it seemed as if you believed him almost in spite of yourself though he
was only ten years old--going on eleven. At this moment he was
especially convincing because he suddenly felt the fascination of
actually making a sort of speech like a grown-up person.

"The great scientific discoveries I am going to make," he went on, "will
be about Magic. Magic is a great thing and scarcely any one knows
anything about it except a few people in old books--and Mary a little,
because she was born in India where there are fakirs. I believe Dickon
knows some Magic, but perhaps he doesn't know he knows it. He charms
animals and people. I would never have let him come to see me if he had
not been an animal charmer--which is a boy charmer, too, because a boy
is an animal. I am sure there is Magic in everything, only we have not
sense enough to get hold of it and make it do things for us--like
electricity and horses and steam."

This sounded so imposing that Ben Weatherstaff became quite excited and
really could not keep still.

"Aye, aye, sir," he said and he began to stand up quite straight.

"When Mary found this garden it looked quite dead," the orator
proceeded. "Then something began pushing things up out of the soil and
making things out of nothing. One day things weren't there and another
they were. I had never watched things before and it made me feel very
curious. Scientific people are always curious and I am going to be
scientific. I keep saying to myself, 'What is it? What is it?' It's
something. It can't be nothing! I don't know its name so I call it
Magic. I have never seen the sun rise but Mary and Dickon have and from
what they tell me I am sure that is Magic too. Something pushes it up
and draws it. Sometimes since I've been in the garden I've looked up
through the trees at the sky and I have had a strange feeling of being
happy as if something were pushing and drawing in my chest and making me
breathe fast. Magic is always pushing and drawing and making things out
of nothing. Everything is made out of Magic, leaves and trees, flowers
and birds, badgers and foxes and squirrels and people. So it must be all
around us. In this garden--in all the places. The Magic in this garden
has made me stand up and know I am going to live to be a man. I am going
to make the scientific experiment of trying to get some and put it in
myself and make it push and draw me and make me strong. I don't know how
to do it but I think that if you keep thinking about it and calling it
perhaps it will come. Perhaps that is the first baby way to get it. When
I was going to try to stand that first time Mary kept saying to herself
as fast as she could, 'You can do it! You can do it!' and I did. I had
to try myself at the same time, of course, but her Magic helped me--and
so did Dickon's. Every morning and evening and as often in the daytime
as I can remember I am going to say, 'Magic is in me! Magic is making me
well! I am going to be as strong as Dickon, as strong as Dickon!' And
you must all do it, too. That is my experiment. Will you help, Ben
Weatherstaff?"

"Aye, aye, sir!" said Ben Weatherstaff. "Aye, aye!"

"If you keep doing it every day as regularly as soldiers go through
drill we shall see what will happen and find out if the experiment
succeeds. You learn things by saying them over and over and thinking
about them until they stay in your mind forever and I think it will be
the same with Magic. If you keep calling it to come to you and help you
it will get to be part of you and it will stay and do things."

"I once heard an officer in India tell my mother that there were fakirs
who said words over and over thousands of times," said Mary.

"I've heard Jem Fettleworth's wife say th' same thing over thousands o'
times--callin' Jem a drunken brute," said Ben Weatherstaff dryly.
"Summat allus come o' that, sure enough. He gave her a good hidin' an'
went to th' Blue Lion an' got as drunk as a lord."

Colin drew his brows together and thought a few minutes. Then he cheered
up.

"Well," he said, "you see something did come of it. She used the wrong
Magic until she made him beat her. If she'd used the right Magic and had
said something nice perhaps he wouldn't have got as drunk as a lord and
perhaps--perhaps he might have bought her a new bonnet."

Ben Weatherstaff chuckled and there was shrewd admiration in his little
old eyes.

"Tha'rt a clever lad as well as a straight-legged one, Mester Colin," he
said. "Next time I see Bess Fettleworth I'll give her a bit of a hint o'
what Magic will do for her. She'd be rare an' pleased if th' sinetifik
'speriment worked--an' so 'ud Jem."

Dickon had stood listening to the lecture, his round eyes shining with
curious delight. Nut and Shell were on his shoulders and he held a
long-eared white rabbit in his arm and stroked and stroked it softly
while it laid its ears along its back and enjoyed itself.

"Do you think the experiment will work?" Colin asked him, wondering what
he was thinking. He so often wondered what Dickon was thinking when he
saw him looking at him or at one of his "creatures" with his happy wide
smile.

He smiled now and his smile was wider than usual.

"Aye," he answered, "that I do. It'll work same as th' seeds do when th'
sun shines on 'em. It'll work for sure. Shall us begin it now?"

Colin was delighted and so was Mary. Fired by recollections of fakirs
and devotees in illustrations Colin suggested that they should all sit
cross-legged under the tree which made a canopy.

"It will be like sitting in a sort of temple," said Colin. "I'm rather
tired and I want to sit down."

"Eh!" said Dickon, "tha' musn't begin by sayin' tha'rt tired. Tha' might
spoil th' Magic."

Colin turned and looked at him--into his innocent round eyes.

"That's true," he said slowly. "I must only think of the Magic."

It all seemed most majestic and mysterious when they sat down in their
circle. Ben Weatherstaff felt as if he had somehow been led into
appearing at a prayer-meeting. Ordinarily he was very fixed in being
what he called "agen' prayer-meetin's" but this being the Rajah's affair
he did not resent it and was indeed inclined to be gratified at being
called upon to assist. Mistress Mary felt solemnly enraptured. Dickon
held his rabbit in his arm, and perhaps he made some charmer's signal no
one heard, for when he sat down, cross-legged like the rest, the crow,
the fox, the squirrels and the lamb slowly drew near and made part of
the circle, settling each into a place of rest as if of their own
desire.

"The 'creatures' have come," said Colin gravely. "They want to help us."

Colin really looked quite beautiful, Mary thought. He held his head high
as if he felt like a sort of priest and his strange eyes had a wonderful
look in them. The light shone on him through the tree canopy.

"Now we will begin," he said. "Shall we sway backward and forward, Mary,
as if we were dervishes?"

"I canna' do no swayin' back'ard and for'ard," said Ben Weatherstaff.
"I've got th' rheumatics."

"The Magic will take them away," said Colin in a High Priest tone, "but
we won't sway until it has done it. We will only chant."

"I canna' do no chantin'," said Ben Weatherstaff a trifle testily. "They
turned me out o' th' church choir th' only time I ever tried it."

No one smiled. They were all too much in earnest. Colin's face was not
even crossed by a shadow. He was thinking only of the Magic.

"Then I will chant," he said. And he began, looking like a strange boy
spirit. "The sun is shining--the sun is shining. That is the Magic. The
flowers are growing--the roots are stirring. That is the Magic. Being
alive is the Magic--being strong is the Magic. The Magic is in me--the
Magic is in me. It is in me--it is in me. It's in every one of us. It's
in Ben Weatherstaff's back. Magic! Magic! Come and help!"

He said it a great many times--not a thousand times but quite a goodly
number. Mary listened entranced. She felt as if it were at once queer
and beautiful and she wanted him to go on and on. Ben Weatherstaff began
to feel soothed into a sort of dream which was quite agreeable. The
humming of the bees in the blossoms mingled with the chanting voice and
drowsily melted into a doze. Dickon sat cross-legged with his rabbit
asleep on his arm and a hand resting on the lamb's back. Soot had
pushed away a squirrel and huddled close to him on his shoulder, the
gray film dropped over his eyes. At last Colin stopped.

"Now I am going to walk round the garden," he announced.

Ben Weatherstaff's head had just dropped forward and he lifted it with a
jerk.

"You have been asleep," said Colin.

"Nowt o' th' sort," mumbled Ben. "Th' sermon was good enow--but I'm
bound to get out afore th' collection."

He was not quite awake yet.

"You're not in church," said Colin.

"Not me," said Ben, straightening himself. "Who said I were? I heard
every bit of it. You said th' Magic was in my back. Th' doctor calls it
rheumatics."

The Rajah waved his hand.

"That was the wrong Magic," he said. "You will get better. You have my
permission to go to your work. But come back to-morrow."

"I'd like to see thee walk round the garden," grunted Ben.

It was not an unfriendly grunt, but it was a grunt. In fact, being a
stubborn old party and not having entire faith in Magic he had made up
his mind that if he were sent away he would climb his ladder and look
over the wall so that he might be ready to hobble back if there were any
stumbling.

The Rajah did not object to his staying and so the procession was
formed. It really did look like a procession. Colin was at its head with
Dickon on one side and Mary on the other. Ben Weatherstaff walked
behind, and the "creatures" trailed after them, the lamb and the fox cub
keeping close to Dickon, the white rabbit hopping along or stopping to
nibble and Soot following with the solemnity of a person who felt
himself in charge.

It was a procession which moved slowly but with dignity. Every few yards
it stopped to rest. Colin leaned on Dickon's arm and privately Ben
Weatherstaff kept a sharp lookout, but now and then Colin took his hand
from its support and walked a few steps alone. His head was held up all
the time and he looked very grand.

"The Magic is in me!" he kept saying. "The Magic is making me strong! I
can feel it! I can feel it!"

It seemed very certain that something was upholding and uplifting him.
He sat on the seats in the alcoves, and once or twice he sat down on the
grass and several times he paused in the path and leaned on Dickon, but
he would not give up until he had gone all round the garden. When he
returned to the canopy tree his cheeks were flushed and he looked
triumphant.

"I did it! The Magic worked!" he cried. "That is my first scientific
discovery."

"What will Dr. Craven say?" broke out Mary.

"He won't say anything," Colin answered, "because he will not be told.
This is to be the biggest secret of all. No one is to know anything
about it until I have grown so strong that I can walk and run like any
other boy. I shall come here every day in my chair and I shall be taken
back in it. I won't have people whispering and asking questions and I
won't let my father hear about it until the experiment has quite
succeeded. Then sometime when he comes back to Misselthwaite I shall
just walk into his study and say 'Here I am; I am like any other boy. I
am quite well and I shall live to be a man. It has been done by a
scientific experiment.'"

"He will think he is in a dream," cried Mary. "He won't believe his
eyes."

Colin flushed triumphantly. He had made himself believe that he was
going to get well, which was really more than half the battle, if he had
been aware of it. And the thought which stimulated him more than any
other was this imagining what his father would look like when he saw
that he had a son who was as straight and strong as other fathers'
sons. One of his darkest miseries in the unhealthy morbid past days had
been his hatred of being a sickly weak-backed boy whose father was
afraid to look at him.

"He'll be obliged to believe them," he said. "One of the things I am
going to do, after the Magic works and before I begin to make scientific
discoveries, is to be an athlete."

"We shall have thee takin' to boxin' in a week or so," said Ben
Weatherstaff. "Tha'lt end wi' winnin' th' Belt an' bein' champion
prize-fighter of all England."

Colin fixed his eyes on him sternly.

"Weatherstaff," he said, "that is disrespectful. You must not take
liberties because you are in the secret. However much the Magic works I
shall not be a prize-fighter. I shall be a Scientific Discoverer."

"Ax pardon--ax pardon, sir," answered Ben, touching his forehead in
salute. "I ought to have seed it wasn't a jokin' matter," but his eyes
twinkled and secretly he was immensely pleased. He really did not mind
being snubbed since the snubbing meant that the lad was gaining strength
and spirit.




CHAPTER XXIV

"LET THEM LAUGH"


The secret garden was not the only one Dickon worked in. Round the
cottage on the moor there was a piece of ground enclosed by a low wall
of rough stones. Early in the morning and late in the fading twilight
and on all the days Colin and Mary did not see him, Dickon worked there
planting or tending potatoes and cabbages, turnips and carrots and herbs
for his mother. In the company of his "creatures" he did wonders there
and was never tired of doing them, it seemed. While he dug or weeded he
whistled or sang bits of Yorkshire moor songs or talked to Soot or
Captain or the brothers and sisters he had taught to help him.

"We'd never get on as comfortable as we do," Mrs. Sowerby said, "if it
wasn't for Dickon's garden. Anything'll grow for him. His 'taters and
cabbages is twice th' size of any one else's an' they've got a flavor
with 'em as nobody's has."

When she found a moment to spare she liked to go out and talk to him.
After supper there was still a long clear twilight to work in and that
was her quiet time. She could sit upon the low rough wall and look on
and hear stories of the day. She loved this time. There were not only
vegetables in this garden. Dickon had bought penny packages of flower
seeds now and then and sown bright sweet-scented things among gooseberry
bushes and even cabbages and he grew borders of mignonette and pinks and
pansies and things whose seeds he could save year after year or whose
roots would bloom each spring and spread in time into fine clumps. The
low wall was one of the prettiest things in Yorkshire because he had
tucked moorland foxglove and ferns and rock-cress and hedgerow flowers
into every crevice until only here and there glimpses of the stones were
to be seen.

"All a chap's got to do to make 'em thrive, mother," he would say, "is
to be friends with 'em for sure. They're just like th' 'creatures.' If
they're thirsty give 'em a drink and if they're hungry give 'em a bit o'
food. They want to live same as we do. If they died I should feel as if
I'd been a bad lad and somehow treated them heartless."

It was in these twilight hours that Mrs. Sowerby heard of all that
happened at Misselthwaite Manor. At first she was only told that
"Mester Colin" had taken a fancy to going out into the grounds with
Miss Mary and that it was doing him good. But it was not long before it
was agreed between the two children that Dickon's mother might "come
into the secret." Somehow it was not doubted that she was "safe for
sure."

So one beautiful still evening Dickon told the whole story, with all the
thrilling details of the buried key and the robin and the gray haze
which had seemed like deadness and the secret Mistress Mary had planned
never to reveal. The coming of Dickon and how it had been told to him,
the doubt of Mester Colin and the final drama of his introduction to the
hidden domain, combined with the incident of Ben Weatherstaff's angry
face peering over the wall and Mester Colin's sudden indignant strength,
made Mrs. Sowerby's nice-looking face quite change color several times.

"My word!" she said. "It was a good thing that little lass came to th'
Manor. It's been th' makin' o' her an' th' savin' o' him. Standin' on
his feet! An' us all thinkin' he was a poor half-witted lad with not a
straight bone in him."

She asked a great many questions and her blue eyes were full of deep
thinking.

"What do they make of it at th' Manor--him being so well an' cheerful
an' never complainin'?" she inquired.

"They don't know what to make of it," answered Dickon. "Every day as
comes round his face looks different. It's fillin' out and doesn't look
so sharp an' th' waxy color is goin'. But he has to do his bit o'
complainin'," with a highly entertained grin.

"What for, i' Mercy's name?" asked Mrs. Sowerby.

Dickon chuckled.

"He does it to keep them from guessin' what's happened. If the doctor
knew he'd found out he could stand on his feet he'd likely write and
tell Mester Craven. Mester Colin's savin' th' secret to tell himself.
He's goin' to practise his Magic on his legs every day till his father
comes back an' then he's goin' to march into his room an' show him he's
as straight as other lads. But him an' Miss Mary thinks it's best plan
to do a bit o' groanin' an' frettin' now an' then to throw folk off th'
scent."

Mrs. Sowerby was laughing a low comfortable laugh long before he had
finished his last sentence.

"Eh!" she said, "that pair's enjoyin' theirselves, I'll warrant. They'll
get a good bit o' play actin' out of it an' there's nothin' children
likes as much as play actin'. Let's hear what they do, Dickon lad."

Dickon stopped weeding and sat up on his heels to tell her. His eyes
were twinkling with fun.

"Mester Colin is carried down to his chair every time he goes out," he
explained. "An' he flies out at John, th' footman, for not carryin' him
careful enough. He makes himself as helpless lookin' as he can an' never
lifts his head until we're out o' sight o' th' house. An' he grunts an'
frets a good bit when he's bein' settled into his chair. Him an' Miss
Mary's both got to enjoyin' it an' when he groans an' complains she'll
say, 'Poor Colin! Does it hurt you so much? Are you so weak as that,
poor Colin?'--but th' trouble is that sometimes they can scarce keep
from burstin' out laughin'. When we get safe into the garden they laugh
till they've no breath left to laugh with. An' they have to stuff their
faces into Mester Colin's cushions to keep the gardeners from hearin',
if any of 'em's about."

"Th' more they laugh th' better for 'em!" said Mrs. Sowerby, still
laughing herself. "Good healthy child laughin's better than pills any
day o' th' year. That pair'll plump up for sure."

"They are plumpin' up," said Dickon. "They're that hungry they don't
know how to get enough to eat without makin' talk. Mester Colin says if
he keeps sendin' for more food they won't believe he's an invalid at
all. Miss Mary says she'll let him eat her share, but he says that if
she goes hungry she'll get thin an' they mun both get fat at once."

Mrs. Sowerby laughed so heartily at the revelation of this difficulty,
that she quite rocked backward and forward in her blue cloak, and Dickon
laughed with her.

"I'll tell thee what, lad," Mrs. Sowerby said when she could speak.
"I've thought of a way to help 'em. When tha' goes to 'em in th'
mornin's tha' shall take a pail o' good new milk an' I'll bake 'em a
crusty cottage loaf or some buns wi' currants in 'em, same as you
children like. Nothin's so good as fresh milk an' bread. Then they could
take off th' edge o' their hunger while they were in their garden an'
th' fine food they get indoors 'ud polish off th' corners."

"Eh! mother!" said Dickon admiringly, "what a wonder tha' art! Tha'
always sees a way out o' things. They was quite in a pother yesterday.
They didn't see how they was to manage without orderin' up more
food--they felt that empty inside."

"They're two young 'uns growin' fast, an' health's comin' back to both of
'em. Children like that feels like young wolves an' food's flesh an'
blood to 'em," said Mrs. Sowerby. Then she smiled Dickon's own curving
smile. "Eh! but they're enjoyin' theirselves for sure," she said.

She was quite right, the comfortable wonderful mother creature--and she
had never been more so than when she said their "play actin'" would be
their joy. Colin and Mary found it one of their most thrilling sources
of entertainment. The idea of protecting themselves from suspicion had
been unconsciously suggested to them first by the puzzled nurse and then
by Dr. Craven himself.

"Your appetite is improving very much, Master Colin," the nurse had said
one day. "You used to eat nothing, and so many things disagreed with
you."

"Nothing disagrees with me now," replied Colin, and then seeing the
nurse looking at him curiously he suddenly remembered that perhaps he
ought not to appear too well just yet. "At least things don't so often
disagree with me. It's the fresh air."

"Perhaps it is," said the nurse, still looking at him with a mystified
expression. "But I must talk to Dr. Craven about it."

"How she stared at you!" said Mary when she went away. "As if she
thought there must be something to find out."

"I won't have her finding out things," said Colin. "No one must begin to
find out yet." When Dr. Craven came that morning he seemed puzzled,
also. He asked a number of questions, to Colin's great annoyance.

"You stay out in the garden a great deal," he suggested. "Where do you
go?"

Colin put on his favorite air of dignified indifference to opinion.

"I will not let any one know where I go," he answered. "I go to a place
I like. Every one has orders to keep out of the way. I won't be watched
and stared at. You know that!"

"You seem to be out all day but I do not think it has done you harm--I
do not think so. The nurse says that you eat much more than you have
ever done before."

"Perhaps," said Colin, prompted by a sudden inspiration, "perhaps it is
an unnatural appetite."

"I do not think so, as your food seems to agree with you," said Dr.
Craven. "You are gaining flesh rapidly and your color is better."

"Perhaps--perhaps I am bloated and feverish," said Colin, assuming a
discouraging air of gloom. "People who are not going to live are
often--different."

Dr. Craven shook his head. He was holding Colin's wrist and he pushed up
his sleeve and felt his arm.

"You are not feverish," he said thoughtfully, "and such flesh as you
have gained is healthy. If we can keep this up, my boy, we need not talk
of dying. Your father will be very happy to hear of this remarkable
improvement."

"I won't have him told!" Colin broke forth fiercely. "It will only
disappoint him if I get worse again--and I may get worse this very
night. I might have a raging fever. I feel as if I might be beginning to
have one now. I won't have letters written to my father--I won't--I
won't! You are making me angry and you know that is bad for me. I feel
hot already. I hate being written about and being talked over as much as
I hate being stared at!"

"Hush-h! my boy," Dr. Craven soothed him. "Nothing shall be written
without your permission. You are too sensitive about things. You must
not undo the good which has been done."

He said no more about writing to Mr. Craven and when he saw the nurse he
privately warned her that such a possibility must not be mentioned to
the patient.

"The boy is extraordinarily better," he said. "His advance seems almost
abnormal. But of course he is doing now of his own free will what we
could not make him do before. Still, he excites himself very easily and
nothing must be said to irritate him."

Mary and Colin were much alarmed and talked together anxiously. From
this time dated their plan of "play actin'."

"I may be obliged to have a tantrum," said Colin regretfully. "I don't
want to have one and I'm not miserable enough now to work myself into a
big one. Perhaps I couldn't have one at all. That lump doesn't come in
my throat now and I keep thinking of nice things instead of horrible
ones. But if they talk about writing to my father I shall have to do
something."

He made up his mind to eat less, but unfortunately it was not possible
to carry out this brilliant idea when he wakened each morning with an
amazing appetite and the table near his sofa was set with a breakfast of
home-made bread and fresh butter, snow-white eggs, raspberry jam and
clotted cream. Mary always breakfasted with him and when they found
themselves at the table--particularly if there were delicate slices of
sizzling ham sending forth tempting odors from under a hot silver
cover--they would look into each other's eyes in desperation.

"I think we shall have to eat it all this morning, Mary," Colin always
ended by saying. "We can send away some of the lunch and a great deal of
the dinner."

But they never found they could send away anything and the highly
polished condition of the empty plates returned to the pantry awakened
much comment.

"I do wish," Colin would say also, "I do wish the slices of ham were
thicker, and one muffin each is not enough for any one."

"It's enough for a person who is going to die," answered Mary when first
she heard this, "but it's not enough for a person who is going to live.
I sometimes feel as if I could eat three when those nice fresh heather
and gorse smells from the moor come pouring in at the open window."

The morning that Dickon--after they had been enjoying themselves in the
garden for about two hours--went behind a big rose-bush and brought
forth two tin pails and revealed that one was full of rich new milk with
cream on the top of it, and that the other held cottage-made currant
buns folded in a clean blue and white napkin, buns so carefully tucked
in that they were still hot, there was a riot of surprised joyfulness.
What a wonderful thing for Mrs. Sowerby to think of! What a kind, clever
woman she must be! How good the buns were! And what delicious fresh
milk!

"Magic is in her just as it is in Dickon," said Colin. "It makes her
think of ways to do things--nice things. She is a Magic person. Tell her
we are grateful, Dickon--extremely grateful."

He was given to using rather grown-up phrases at times. He enjoyed them.
He liked this so much that he improved upon it.

"Tell her she has been most bounteous and our gratitude is extreme."

And then forgetting his grandeur he fell to and stuffed himself with
buns and drank milk out of the pail in copious draughts in the manner of
any hungry little boy who had been taking unusual exercise and breathing
in moorland air and whose breakfast was more than two hours behind him.

This was the beginning of many agreeable incidents of the same kind.
They actually awoke to the fact that as Mrs. Sowerby had fourteen people
to provide food for she might not have enough to satisfy two extra
appetites every day. So they asked her to let them send some of their
shillings to buy things.

Dickon made the stimulating discovery that in the wood in the park
outside the garden where Mary had first found him piping to the wild
creatures there was a deep little hollow where you could build a sort of
tiny oven with stones and roast potatoes and eggs in it. Roasted eggs
were a previously unknown luxury and very hot potatoes with salt and
fresh butter in them were fit for a woodland king--besides being
deliciously satisfying. You could buy both potatoes and eggs and eat as
many as you liked without feeling as if you were taking food out of the
mouths of fourteen people.

Every beautiful morning the Magic was worked by the mystic circle under
the plum-tree which provided a canopy of thickening green leaves after
its brief blossom-time was ended. After the ceremony Colin always took
his walking exercise and throughout the day he exercised his newly found
power at intervals. Each day he grew stronger and could walk more
steadily and cover more ground. And each day his belief in the Magic
grew stronger--as well it might. He tried one experiment after another
as he felt himself gaining strength and it was Dickon who showed him the
best things of all.

"Yesterday," he said one morning after an absence, "I went to Thwaite
for mother an' near th' Blue Cow Inn I seed Bob Haworth. He's the
strongest chap on th' moor. He's the champion wrestler an' he can jump
higher than any other chap an' throw th' hammer farther. He's gone all
th' way to Scotland for th' sports some years. He's knowed me ever since
I was a little 'un an' he's a friendly sort an' I axed him some
questions. Th' gentry calls him a athlete and I thought o' thee, Mester
Colin, and I says, 'How did tha' make tha' muscles stick out that way,
Bob? Did tha' do anythin' extra to make thysel' so strong?' An' he says
'Well, yes, lad, I did. A strong man in a show that came to Thwaite once
showed me how to exercise my arms an' legs an' every muscle in my body.'
An' I says, 'Could a delicate chap make himself stronger with 'em, Bob?'
an' he laughed an' says, 'Art tha' th' delicate chap?' an' I says, 'No,
but I knows a young gentleman that's gettin' well of a long illness an'
I wish I knowed some o' them tricks to tell him about.' I didn't say no
names an' he didn't ask none. He's friendly same as I said an' he stood
up an' showed me good-natured like, an' I imitated what he did till I
knowed it by heart."

Colin had been listening excitedly.

"Can you show me?" he cried. "Will you?"

"Aye, to be sure," Dickon answered, getting up. "But he says tha' mun do
'em gentle at first an' be careful not to tire thysel'. Rest in between
times an' take deep breaths an' don't overdo."

"I'll be careful," said Colin. "Show me! Show me! Dickon, you are the
most Magic boy in the world!"

Dickon stood up on the grass and slowly went through a carefully
practical but simple series of muscle exercises. Colin watched them with
widening eyes. He could do a few while he was sitting down. Presently he
did a few gently while he stood upon his already steadied feet. Mary
began to do them also. Soot, who was watching the performance, became
much disturbed and left his branch and hopped about restlessly because
he could not do them too.

From that time the exercises were part of the day's duties as much as
the Magic was. It became possible for both Colin and Mary to do more of
them each time they tried, and such appetites were the results that but
for the basket Dickon put down behind the bush each morning when he
arrived they would have been lost. But the little oven in the hollow and
Mrs. Sowerby's bounties were so satisfying that Mrs. Medlock and the
nurse and Dr. Craven became mystified again. You can trifle with your
breakfast and seem to disdain your dinner if you are full to the brim
with roasted eggs and potatoes and richly frothed new milk and oat-cakes
and buns and heather honey and clotted cream.

"They are eating next to nothing," said the nurse. "They'll die of
starvation if they can't be persuaded to take some nourishment. And yet
see how they look."

"Look!" exclaimed Mrs. Medlock indignantly. "Eh! I'm moithered to death
with them. They're a pair of young Satans. Bursting their jackets one
day and the next turning up their noses at the best meals Cook can
tempt them with. Not a mouthful of that lovely young fowl and bread
sauce did they set a fork into yesterday--and the poor woman fair
_invented_ a pudding for them--and back it's sent. She almost cried.
She's afraid she'll be blamed if they starve themselves into their
graves."

Dr. Craven came and looked at Colin long and carefully. He wore an
extremely worried expression when the nurse talked with him and showed
him the almost untouched tray of breakfast she had saved for him to look
at--but it was even more worried when he sat down by Colin's sofa and
examined him. He had been called to London on business and had not seen
the boy for nearly two weeks. When young things begin to gain health
they gain it rapidly. The waxen tinge had left Colin's skin and a warm
rose showed through it; his beautiful eyes were clear and the hollows
under them and in his cheeks and temples had filled out. His once dark,
heavy locks had begun to look as if they sprang healthily from his
forehead and were soft and warm with life. His lips were fuller and of a
normal color. In fact as an imitation of a boy who was a confirmed
invalid he was a disgraceful sight. Dr. Craven held his chin in his hand
and thought him over.

"I am sorry to hear that you do not eat anything," he said. "That will
not do. You will lose all you have gained--and you have gained
amazingly. You ate so well a short time ago."

"I told you it was an unnatural appetite," answered Colin.

Mary was sitting on her stool nearby and she suddenly made a very queer
sound which she tried so violently to repress that she ended by almost
choking.

"What is the matter?" said Dr. Craven, turning to look at her.

Mary became quite severe in her manner.

"It was something between a sneeze and a cough," she replied with
reproachful dignity, "and it got into my throat."

"But" she said afterward to Colin, "I couldn't stop myself. It just
burst out because all at once I couldn't help remembering that last big
potato you ate and the way your mouth stretched when you bit through
that thick lovely crust with jam and clotted cream on it."

"Is there any way in which those children can get food secretly?" Dr.
Craven inquired of Mrs. Medlock.

"There's no way unless they dig it out of the earth or pick it off the
trees," Mrs. Medlock answered. "They stay out in the grounds all day and
see no one but each other. And if they want anything different to eat
from what's sent up to them they need only ask for it."

"Well," said Dr. Craven, "so long as going without food agrees with them
we need not disturb ourselves. The boy is a new creature."

"So is the girl," said Mrs. Medlock. "She's begun to be downright pretty
since she's filled out and lost her ugly little sour look. Her hair's
grown thick and healthy looking and she's got a bright color. The
glummest, ill-natured little thing she used to be and now her and Master
Colin laugh together like a pair of crazy young ones. Perhaps they're
growing fat on that."

"Perhaps they are," said Dr. Craven. "Let them laugh."




CHAPTER XXV

THE CURTAIN


And the secret garden bloomed and bloomed and every morning revealed
new miracles. In the robin's nest there were Eggs and the robin's
mate sat upon them keeping them warm with her feathery little breast
and careful wings. At first she was very nervous and the robin himself
was indignantly watchful. Even Dickon did not go near the close-grown
corner in those days, but waited until by the quiet working of some
mysterious spell he seemed to have conveyed to the soul of the little
pair that in the garden there was nothing which was not quite like
themselves--nothing which did not understand the wonderfulness of what
was happening to them--the immense, tender, terrible, heart-breaking
beauty and solemnity of Eggs. If there had been one person in that
garden who had not known through all his or her innermost being that if
an Egg were taken away or hurt the whole world would whirl round and
crash through space and come to an end--if there had been even one who
did not feel it and act accordingly there could have been no happiness
even in that golden springtime air. But they all knew it and felt it and
the robin and his mate knew they knew it.

At first the robin watched Mary and Colin with sharp anxiety. For some
mysterious reason he knew he need not watch Dickon. The first moment he
set his dew-bright black eye on Dickon he knew he was not a stranger but
a sort of robin without beak or feathers. He could speak robin (which is
a quite distinct language not to be mistaken for any other). To speak
robin to a robin is like speaking French to a Frenchman. Dickon always
spoke it to the robin himself, so the queer gibberish he used when he
spoke to humans did not matter in the least. The robin thought he spoke
this gibberish to them because they were not intelligent enough to
understand feathered speech. His movements also were robin. They never
startled one by being sudden enough to seem dangerous or threatening.
Any robin could understand Dickon, so his presence was not even
disturbing.

But at the outset it seemed necessary to be on guard against the other
two. In the first place the boy creature did not come into the garden on
his legs. He was pushed in on a thing with wheels and the skins of wild
animals were thrown over him. That in itself was doubtful. Then when he
began to stand up and move about he did it in a queer unaccustomed way
and the others seemed to have to help him. The robin used to secrete
himself in a bush and watch this anxiously, his head tilted first on one
side and then on the other. He thought that the slow movements might
mean that he was preparing to pounce, as cats do. When cats are
preparing to pounce they creep over the ground very slowly. The robin
talked this over with his mate a great deal for a few days but after
that he decided not to speak of the subject because her terror was so
great that he was afraid it might be injurious to the Eggs.

When the boy began to walk by himself and even to move more quickly it
was an immense relief. But for a long time--or it seemed a long time to
the robin--he was a source of some anxiety. He did not act as the other
humans did. He seemed very fond of walking but he had a way of sitting
or lying down for a while and then getting up in a disconcerting manner
to begin again.

One day the robin remembered that when he himself had been made to learn
to fly by his parents he had done much the same sort of thing. He had
taken short flights of a few yards and then had been obliged to rest. So
it occurred to him that this boy was learning to fly--or rather to
walk. He mentioned this to his mate and when he told her that the Eggs
would probably conduct themselves in the same way after they were
fledged she was quite comforted and even became eagerly interested and
derived great pleasure from watching the boy over the edge of her
nest--though she always thought that the Eggs would be much cleverer and
learn more quickly. But then she said indulgently that humans were
always more clumsy and slow than Eggs and most of them never seemed
really to learn to fly at all. You never met them in the air or on
tree-tops.

After a while the boy began to move about as the others did, but all
three of the children at times did unusual things. They would stand
under the trees and move their arms and legs and heads about in a way
which was neither walking nor running nor sitting down. They went
through these movements at intervals every day and the robin was never
able to explain to his mate what they were doing or trying to do. He
could only say that he was sure that the Eggs would never flap about in
such a manner; but as the boy who could speak robin so fluently was
doing the thing with them, birds could be quite sure that the actions
were not of a dangerous nature. Of course neither the robin nor his mate
had ever heard of the champion wrestler, Bob Haworth, and his exercises
for making the muscles stand out like lumps. Robins are not like human
beings; their muscles are always exercised from the first and so they
develop themselves in a natural manner. If you have to fly about to find
every meal you eat, your muscles do not become atrophied (atrophied
means wasted away through want of use).

When the boy was walking and running about and digging and weeding like
the others, the nest in the corner was brooded over by a great peace and
content. Fears for the Eggs became things of the past. Knowing that your
Eggs were as safe as if they were locked in a bank vault and the fact
that you could watch so many curious things going on made setting a most
entertaining occupation. On wet days the Eggs' mother sometimes felt
even a little dull because the children did not come into the garden.

But even on wet days it could not be said that Mary and Colin were dull.
One morning when the rain streamed down unceasingly and Colin was
beginning to feel a little restive, as he was obliged to remain on his
sofa because it was not safe to get up and walk about, Mary had an
inspiration.

"Now that I am a real boy," Colin had said, "my legs and arms and all my
body are so full of Magic that I can't keep them still. They want to be
doing things all the time. Do you know that when I waken in the
morning, Mary, when it's quite early and the birds are just shouting
outside and everything seems just shouting for joy--even the trees and
things we can't really hear--I feel as if I must jump out of bed and
shout myself. And if I did it, just think what would happen!"

Mary giggled inordinately.

"The nurse would come running and Mrs. Medlock would come running and
they would be sure you had gone crazy and they'd send for the doctor,"
she said.

Colin giggled himself. He could see how they would all look--how
horrified by his outbreak and how amazed to see him standing upright.

"I wish my father would come home," he said. "I want to tell him myself.
I'm always thinking about it--but we couldn't go on like this much
longer. I can't stand lying still and pretending, and besides I look too
different. I wish it wasn't raining to-day."

It was then Mistress Mary had her inspiration.

"Colin," she began mysteriously, "do you know how many rooms there are
in this house?"

"About a thousand, I suppose," he answered.

"There's about a hundred no one ever goes into," said Mary. "And one
rainy day I went and looked into ever so many of them. No one ever
knew, though Mrs. Medlock nearly found me out. I lost my way when I was
coming back and I stopped at the end of your corridor. That was the
second time I heard you crying."

Colin started up on his sofa.

"A hundred rooms no one goes into," he said. "It sounds almost like a
secret garden. Suppose we go and look at them. You could wheel me in my
chair and nobody would know where we went."

"That's what I was thinking," said Mary. "No one would dare to follow
us. There are galleries where you could run. We could do our exercises.
There is a little Indian room where there is a cabinet full of ivory
elephants. There are all sorts of rooms."

"Ring the bell," said Colin.

When the nurse came in he gave his orders.

"I want my chair," he said. "Miss Mary and I are going to look at the
part of the house which is not used. John can push me as far as the
picture-gallery because there are some stairs. Then he must go away and
leave us alone until I send for him again."

Rainy days lost their terrors that morning. When the footman had wheeled
the chair into the picture-gallery and left the two together in
obedience to orders, Colin and Mary looked at each other delighted. As
soon as Mary had made sure that John was really on his way back to his
own quarters below stairs, Colin got out of his chair.

"I am going to run from one end of the gallery to the other," he said,
"and then I am going to jump and then we will do Bob Haworth's
exercises."

And they did all these things and many others. They looked at the
portraits and found the plain little girl dressed in green brocade and
holding the parrot on her finger.

"All these," said Colin, "must be my relations. They lived a long time
ago. That parrot one, I believe, is one of my great, great, great, great
aunts. She looks rather like you, Mary--not as you look now but as you
looked when you came here. Now you are a great deal fatter and better
looking."

"So are you," said Mary, and they both laughed.

They went to the Indian room and amused themselves with the ivory
elephants. They found the rose-colored brocade boudoir and the hole in
the cushion the mouse had left but the mice had grown up and run away
and the hole was empty. They saw more rooms and made more discoveries
than Mary had made on her first pilgrimage. They found new corridors
and corners and flights of steps and new old pictures they liked and
weird old things they did not know the use of. It was a curiously
entertaining morning and the feeling of wandering about in the same
house with other people but at the same time feeling as if one were
miles away from them was a fascinating thing.

"I'm glad we came," Colin said. "I never knew I lived in such a big
queer old place. I like it. We will ramble about every rainy day. We
shall always be finding new queer corners and things."

That morning they had found among other things such good appetites that
when they returned to Colin's room it was not possible to send the
luncheon away untouched.

When the nurse carried the tray down-stairs she slapped it down on the
kitchen dresser so that Mrs. Loomis, the cook, could see the highly
polished dishes and plates.

"Look at that!" she said. "This is a house of mystery, and those two
children are the greatest mysteries in it."

"If they keep that up every day," said the strong young footman John,
"there'd be small wonder that he weighs twice as much to-day as he did a
month ago. I should have to give up my place in time, for fear of doing
my muscles an injury."

That afternoon Mary noticed that something new had happened in Colin's
room. She had noticed it the day before but had said nothing because she
thought the change might have been made by chance. She said nothing
to-day but she sat and looked fixedly at the picture over the mantel.
She could look at it because the curtain had been drawn aside. That was
the change she noticed.

"I know what you want me to tell you," said Colin, after she had stared
a few minutes. "I always know when you want me to tell you something.
You are wondering why the curtain is drawn back. I am going to keep it
like that."

"Why?" asked Mary.

"Because it doesn't make me angry any more to see her laughing. I
wakened when it was bright moonlight two nights ago and felt as if the
Magic was filling the room and making everything so splendid that I
couldn't lie still. I got up and looked out of the window. The room was
quite light and there was a patch of moonlight on the curtain and
somehow that made me go and pull the cord. She looked right down at me
as if she were laughing because she was glad I was standing there. It
made me like to look at her. I want to see her laughing like that all
the time. I think she must have been a sort of Magic person perhaps."

"You are so like her now," said Mary, "that sometimes I think perhaps
you are her ghost made into a boy."

That idea seemed to impress Colin. He thought it over and then answered
her slowly.

"If I were her ghost--my father would be fond of me," he said.

"Do you want him to be fond of you?" inquired Mary.

"I used to hate it because he was not fond of me. If he grew fond of me
I think I should tell him about the Magic. It might make him more
cheerful."




CHAPTER XXVI

"IT'S MOTHER!"


Their belief in the Magic was an abiding thing. After the morning's
incantations Colin sometimes gave them Magic lectures.

"I like to do it," he explained, "because when I grow up and make great
scientific discoveries I shall be obliged to lecture about them and so
this is practise. I can only give short lectures now because I am very
young, and besides Ben Weatherstaff would feel as if he was in church
and he would go to sleep."

"Th' best thing about lecturin'," said Ben, "is that a chap can get up
an' say aught he pleases an' no other chap can answer him back. I
wouldn't be agen' lecturin' a bit mysel' sometimes."

But when Colin held forth under his tree old Ben fixed devouring eyes on
him and kept them there. He looked him over with critical affection. It
was not so much the lecture which interested him as the legs which
looked straighter and stronger each day, the boyish head which held
itself up so well, the once sharp chin and hollow cheeks which had
filled and rounded out and the eyes which had begun to hold the light he
remembered in another pair. Sometimes when Colin felt Ben's earnest gaze
meant that he was much impressed he wondered what he was reflecting on
and once when he had seemed quite entranced he questioned him.

"What are you thinking about, Ben Weatherstaff?" he asked.

"I was thinkin'," answered Ben, "as I'd warrant tha's gone up three or
four pound this week. I was lookin' at tha' calves an' tha' shoulders.
I'd like to get thee on a pair o' scales."

"It's the Magic and--and Mrs. Sowerby's buns and milk and things," said
Colin. "You see the scientific experiment has succeeded."

That morning Dickon was too late to hear the lecture. When he came he
was ruddy with running and his funny face looked more twinkling than
usual. As they had a good deal of weeding to do after the rains they
fell to work. They always had plenty to do after a warm deep sinking
rain. The moisture which was good for the flowers was also good for the
weeds which thrust up tiny blades of grass and points of leaves which
must be pulled up before their roots took too firm hold. Colin was as
good at weeding as any one in these days and he could lecture while he
was doing it.

"The Magic works best when you work yourself," he said this morning.
"You can feel it in your bones and muscles. I am going to read books
about bones and muscles, but I am going to write a book about Magic. I
am making it up now. I keep finding out things."

It was not very long after he had said this that he laid down his trowel
and stood up on his feet. He had been silent for several minutes and
they had seen that he was thinking out lectures, as he often did. When
he dropped his trowel and stood upright it seemed to Mary and Dickon as
if a sudden strong thought had made him do it. He stretched himself out
to his tallest height and he threw out his arms exultantly. Color glowed
in his face and his strange eyes widened with joyfulness. All at once he
had realized something to the full.

"Mary! Dickon!" he cried. "Just look at me!"

They stopped their weeding and looked at him.

"Do you remember that first morning you brought me in here?" he
demanded.

Dickon was looking at him very hard. Being an animal charmer he could
see more things than most people could and many of them were things he
never talked about. He saw some of them now in this boy.

"Aye, that we do," he answered.

Mary looked hard too, but she said nothing.

"Just this minute," said Colin, "all at once I remembered it
myself--when I looked at my hand digging with the trowel--and I had to
stand up on my feet to see if it was real. And it _is_ real! I'm
_well_--I'm _well_!"

"Aye, that tha' art!" said Dickon.

"I'm well! I'm well!" said Colin again, and his face went quite red all
over.

He had known it before in a way, he had hoped it and felt it and thought
about it, but just at that minute something had rushed all through
him--a sort of rapturous belief and realization and it had been so
strong that he could not help calling out.

"I shall live forever and ever and ever!" he cried grandly. "I shall
find out thousands and thousands of things. I shall find out about
people and creatures and everything that grows--like Dickon--and I shall
never stop making Magic. I'm well! I'm well! I feel--I feel as if I want
to shout out something--something thankful, joyful!"

Ben Weatherstaff, who had been working near a rose-bush, glanced round
at him.

"Tha' might sing th' Doxology," he suggested in his dryest grunt. He had
no opinion of the Doxology and he did not make the suggestion with any
particular reverence.

But Colin was of an exploring mind and he knew nothing about the
Doxology.

"What is that?" he inquired.

"Dickon can sing it for thee, I'll warrant," replied Ben Weatherstaff.

Dickon answered with his all-perceiving animal charmer's smile.

"They sing it i' church," he said. "Mother says she believes th'
skylarks sings it when they gets up i' th' mornin'."

"If she says that, it must be a nice song," Colin answered. "I've never
been in a church myself. I was always too ill. Sing it, Dickon. I want
to hear it."

Dickon was quite simple and unaffected about it. He understood what
Colin felt better than Colin did himself. He understood by a sort of
instinct so natural that he did not know it was understanding. He pulled
off his cap and looked round still smiling.

"Tha' must take off tha' cap," he said to Colin, "an' so mun tha',
Ben--an' tha' mun stand up, tha' knows."

Colin took off his cap and the sun shone on and warmed his thick hair as
he watched Dickon intently. Ben Weatherstaff scrambled up from his
knees and bared his head too with a sort of puzzled half-resentful look
on his old face as if he didn't know exactly why he was doing this
remarkable thing.

Dickon stood out among the trees and rose-bushes and began to sing in
quite a simple matter-of-fact way and in a nice strong boy voice:

          "Praise God from whom all blessings flow,
           Praise Him all creatures here below,
           Praise Him above ye Heavenly Host,
           Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.
                                         Amen."

When he had finished, Ben Weatherstaff was standing quite still with his
jaws set obstinately but with a disturbed look in his eyes fixed on
Colin. Colin's face was thoughtful and appreciative.

"It is a very nice song," he said. "I like it. Perhaps it means just
what I mean when I want to shout out that I am thankful to the Magic."
He stopped and thought in a puzzled way. "Perhaps they are both the same
thing. How can we know the exact names of everything? Sing it again,
Dickon. Let us try, Mary. I want to sing it, too. It's my song. How does
it begin? 'Praise God from whom all blessings flow'?"

[Illustration: "'PRAISE GOD FROM WHOM ALL BLESSINGS FLOW'"--_Page 344_]

And they sang it again, and Mary and Colin lifted their voices as
musically as they could and Dickon's swelled quite loud and
beautiful--and at the second line Ben Weatherstaff raspingly cleared his
throat and at the third he joined in with such vigor that it seemed
almost savage and when the "Amen" came to an end Mary observed that the
very same thing had happened to him which had happened when he found out
that Colin was not a cripple--his chin was twitching and he was staring
and winking and his leathery old cheeks were wet.

"I never seed no sense in th' Doxology afore," he said hoarsely, "but I
may change my mind i' time. I should say tha'd gone up five pound this
week, Mester Colin--five on 'em!"

Colin was looking across the garden at something attracting his
attention and his expression had become a startled one.

"Who is coming in here?" he said quickly. "Who is it?"

The door in the ivied wall had been pushed gently open and a woman had
entered. She had come in with the last line of their song and she had
stood still listening and looking at them. With the ivy behind her, the
sunlight drifting through the trees and dappling her long blue cloak,
and her nice fresh face smiling across the greenery she was rather like
a softly colored illustration in one of Colin's books. She had wonderful
affectionate eyes which seemed to take everything in--all of them, even
Ben Weatherstaff and the "creatures" and every flower that was in bloom.
Unexpectedly as she had appeared, not one of them felt that she was an
intruder at all. Dickon's eyes lighted like lamps.

"It's Mother--that's who it is!" he cried and he went across the grass
at a run.

Colin began to move toward her, too, and Mary went with him. They both
felt their pulses beat faster.

"It's Mother!" Dickon said again when they met half-way. "I knowed tha'
wanted to see her an' I told her where th' door was hid."

Colin held out his hand with a sort of flushed royal shyness but his
eyes quite devoured her face.

"Even when I was ill I wanted to see you," he said, "you and Dickon and
the secret garden. I'd never wanted to see any one or anything before."

The sight of his uplifted face brought about a sudden change in her own.
She flushed and the corners of her mouth shook and a mist seemed to
sweep over her eyes.

"Eh! dear lad!" she broke out tremulously. "Eh! dear lad!" as if she had
not known she were going to say it. She did not say, "Mester Colin,"
but just "dear lad" quite suddenly. She might have said it to Dickon in
the same way if she had seen something in his face which touched her.
Colin liked it.

"Are you surprised because I am so well?" he asked.

She put her hand on his shoulder and smiled the mist out of her eyes.

"Aye, that I am!" she said; "but tha'rt so like thy mother tha' made my
heart jump."

"Do you think," said Colin a little awkwardly, "that will make my father
like me?"

"Aye, for sure, dear lad," she answered and she gave his shoulder a soft
quick pat. "He mun come home--he mun come home."

"Susan Sowerby," said Ben Weatherstaff, getting close to her. "Look at
th' lad's legs, wilt tha'? They was like drumsticks i' stockin' two
month' ago--an' I heard folk tell as they was bandy an' knock-kneed both
at th' same time. Look at 'em now!"

Susan Sowerby laughed a comfortable laugh.

"They're goin' to be fine strong lad's legs in a bit," she said. "Let
him go on playin' an' workin' in th' garden an' eatin' hearty an'
drinkin' plenty o' good sweet milk an' there'll not be a finer pair i'
Yorkshire, thank God for it."

She put both hands on Mistress Mary's shoulders and looked her little
face over in a motherly fashion.

"An' thee, too!" she said. "Tha'rt grown near as hearty as our 'Lizabeth
Ellen. I'll warrant tha'rt like thy mother too. Our Martha told me as
Mrs. Medlock heard she was a pretty woman. Tha'lt be like a blush rose
when tha' grows up, my little lass, bless thee."

She did not mention that when Martha came home on her "day out" and
described the plain sallow child she had said that she had no confidence
whatever in what Mrs. Medlock had heard. "It doesn't stand to reason
that a pretty woman could be th' mother o' such a fou' little lass," she
had added obstinately.

Mary had not had time to pay much attention to her changing face. She
had only known that she looked "different" and seemed to have a great
deal more hair and that it was growing very fast. But remembering her
pleasure in looking at the Mem Sahib in the past she was glad to hear
that she might some day look like her.

Susan Sowerby went round their garden with them and was told the whole
story of it and shown every bush and tree which had come alive. Colin
walked on one side of her and Mary on the other. Each of them kept
looking up at her comfortable rosy face, secretly curious about the
delightful feeling she gave them--a sort of warm, supported feeling. It
seemed as if she understood them as Dickon understood his "creatures."
She stooped over the flowers and talked about them as if they were
children. Soot followed her and once or twice cawed at her and flew upon
her shoulder as if it were Dickon's. When they told her about the robin
and the first flight of the young ones she laughed a motherly little
mellow laugh in her throat.

"I suppose learnin' 'em to fly is like learnin' children to walk, but
I'm feared I should be all in a worrit if mine had wings instead o'
legs," she said.

It was because she seemed such a wonderful woman in her nice moorland
cottage way that at last she was told about the Magic.

"Do you believe in Magic?" asked Colin after he had explained about
Indian fakirs. "I do hope you do."

"That I do, lad," she answered. "I never knowed it by that name but what
does th' name matter? I warrant they call it a different name i' France
an' a different one i' Germany. Th' same thing as set th' seeds swellin'
an' th' sun shinin' made thee a well lad an' it's th' Good Thing. It
isn't like us poor fools as think it matters if us is called out of our
names. Th' Big Good Thing doesn't stop to worrit, bless thee. It goes
on makin' worlds by th' million--worlds like us. Never thee stop
believin' in th' Big Good Thing an' knowin' th' world's full of it--an'
call it what tha' likes. Tha' wert singin' to it when I come into th'
garden."

"I felt so joyful," said Colin, opening his beautiful strange eyes at
her. "Suddenly I felt how different I was--how strong my arms and legs
were, you know--and how I could dig and stand--and I jumped up and
wanted to shout out something to anything that would listen."

"Th' Magic listened when tha' sung th' Doxology. It would ha' listened
to anything tha'd sung. It was th' joy that mattered. Eh! lad,
lad--what's names to th' Joy Maker," and she gave his shoulders a quick
soft pat again.

She had packed a basket which held a regular feast this morning, and
when the hungry hour came and Dickon brought it out from its hiding
place, she sat down with them under their tree and watched them devour
their food, laughing and quite gloating over their appetites. She was
full of fun and made them laugh at all sorts of odd things. She told
them stories in broad Yorkshire and taught them new words. She laughed
as if she could not help it when they told her of the increasing
difficulty there was in pretending that Colin was still a fretful
invalid.

"You see we can't help laughing nearly all the time when we are
together," explained Colin. "And it doesn't sound ill at all. We try to
choke it back but it will burst out and that sounds worse than ever."

"There's one thing that comes into my mind so often," said Mary, "and I
can scarcely ever hold in when I think of it suddenly. I keep thinking
suppose Colin's face should get to look like a full moon. It isn't like
one yet but he gets a tiny bit fatter every day--and suppose some
morning it should look like one--what should we do!"

"Bless us all, I can see tha' has a good bit o' play actin' to do," said
Susan Sowerby. "But tha' won't have to keep it up much longer. Mester
Craven'll come home."

"Do you think he will?" asked Colin. "Why?"

Susan Sowerby chuckled softly.

"I suppose it 'ud nigh break thy heart if he found out before tha' told
him in tha' own way," she said. "Tha's laid awake nights plannin' it."

"I couldn't bear any one else to tell him," said Colin. "I think about
different ways every day. I think now I just want to run into his
room."

"That'd be a fine start for him," said Susan Sowerby. "I'd like to see
his face, lad. I would that! He mun come back--that he mun."

One of the things they talked of was the visit they were to make to her
cottage. They planned it all. They were to drive over the moor and lunch
out of doors among the heather. They would see all the twelve children
and Dickon's garden and would not come back until they were tired.

Susan Sowerby got up at last to return to the house and Mrs. Medlock. It
was time for Colin to be wheeled back also. But before he got into his
chair he stood quite close to Susan and fixed his eyes on her with a
kind of bewildered adoration and he suddenly caught hold of the fold of
her blue cloak and held it fast.

"You are just what I--what I wanted," he said. "I wish you were my
mother--as well as Dickon's!"

All at once Susan Sowerby bent down and drew him with her warm arms
close against the bosom under the blue cloak--as if he had been Dickon's
brother. The quick mist swept over her eyes.

"Eh! dear lad!" she said. "Thy own mother's in this 'ere very garden, I
do believe. She couldna' keep out of it. Thy father mun come back to
thee--he mun!"




CHAPTER XXVII

IN THE GARDEN


In each century since the beginning of the world wonderful things have
been discovered. In the last century more amazing things were found out
than in any century before. In this new century hundreds of things still
more astounding will be brought to light. At first people refuse to
believe that a strange new thing can be done, then they begin to hope it
can be done, then they see it can be done--then it is done and all the
world wonders why it was not done centuries ago. One of the new things
people began to find out in the last century was that thoughts--just
mere thoughts--are as powerful as electric batteries--as good for one as
sunlight is, or as bad for one as poison. To let a sad thought or a bad
one get into your mind is as dangerous as letting a scarlet fever germ
get into your body. If you let it stay there after it has got in you may
never get over it as long as you live.

So long as Mistress Mary's mind was full of disagreeable thoughts about
her dislikes and sour opinions of people and her determination not to
be pleased by or interested in anything, she was a yellow-faced, sickly,
bored and wretched child. Circumstances, however, were very kind to her,
though she was not at all aware of it. They began to push her about for
her own good. When her mind gradually filled itself with robins, and
moorland cottages crowded with children, with queer crabbed old
gardeners and common little Yorkshire housemaids, with springtime and
with secret gardens coming alive day by day, and also with a moor boy
and his "creatures," there was no room left for the disagreeable
thoughts which affected her liver and her digestion and made her yellow
and tired.

So long as Colin shut himself up in his room and thought only of his
fears and weakness and his detestation of people who looked at him and
reflected hourly on humps and early death, he was a hysterical
half-crazy little hypochondriac who knew nothing of the sunshine and the
spring and also did not know that he could get well and could stand upon
his feet if he tried to do it. When new beautiful thoughts began to push
out the old hideous ones, life began to come back to him, his blood ran
healthily through his veins and strength poured into him like a flood.
His scientific experiment was quite practical and simple and there was
nothing weird about it at all. Much more surprising things can happen to
any one who, when a disagreeable or discouraged thought comes into his
mind, just has the sense to remember in time and push it out by putting
in an agreeable determinedly courageous one. Two things cannot be in one
place.

          "Where you tend a rose, my lad,
           A thistle cannot grow."

While the secret garden was coming alive and two children were coming
alive with it, there was a man wandering about certain far-away
beautiful places in the Norwegian fiords and the valleys and mountains
of Switzerland and he was a man who for ten years had kept his mind
filled with dark and heart-broken thinking. He had not been courageous;
he had never tried to put any other thoughts in the place of the dark
ones. He had wandered by blue lakes and thought them; he had lain on
mountain-sides with sheets of deep blue gentians blooming all about him
and flower breaths filling all the air and he had thought them. A
terrible sorrow had fallen upon him when he had been happy and he had
let his soul fill itself with blackness and had refused obstinately to
allow any rift of light to pierce through. He had forgotten and deserted
his home and his duties. When he traveled about, darkness so brooded
over him that the sight of him was a wrong done to other people because
it was as if he poisoned the air about him with gloom. Most strangers
thought he must be either half mad or a man with some hidden crime on
his soul. He was a tall man with a drawn face and crooked shoulders and
the name he always entered on hotel registers was, "Archibald Craven,
Misselthwaite Manor, Yorkshire, England."

He had traveled far and wide since the day he saw Mistress Mary in his
study and told her she might have her "bit of earth." He had been in the
most beautiful places in Europe, though he had remained nowhere more
than a few days. He had chosen the quietest and remotest spots. He had
been on the tops of mountains whose heads were in the clouds and had
looked down on other mountains when the sun rose and touched them with
such light as made it seem as if the world were just being born.

But the light had never seemed to touch himself until one day when he
realized that for the first time in ten years a strange thing had
happened. He was in a wonderful valley in the Austrian Tyrol and he had
been walking alone through such beauty as might have lifted any man's
soul out of shadow. He had walked a long way and it had not lifted his.
But at last he had felt tired and had thrown himself down to rest on a
carpet of moss by a stream. It was a clear little stream which ran quite
merrily along on its narrow way through the luscious damp greenness.
Sometimes it made a sound rather like very low laughter as it bubbled
over and round stones. He saw birds come and dip their heads to drink in
it and then flick their wings and fly away. It seemed like a thing alive
and yet its tiny voice made the stillness seem deeper. The valley was
very, very still.

As he sat gazing into the clear running of the water, Archibald Craven
gradually felt his mind and body both grow quiet, as quiet as the valley
itself. He wondered if he were going to sleep, but he was not. He sat
and gazed at the sunlit water and his eyes began to see things growing
at its edge. There was one lovely mass of blue forget-me-nots growing so
close to the stream that its leaves were wet and at these he found
himself looking as he remembered he had looked at such things years ago.
He was actually thinking tenderly how lovely it was and what wonders of
blue its hundreds of little blossoms were. He did not know that just
that simple thought was slowly filling his mind--filling and filling it
until other things were softly pushed aside. It was as if a sweet clear
spring had begun to rise in a stagnant pool and had risen and risen
until at last it swept the dark water away. But of course he did not
think of this himself. He only knew that the valley seemed to grow
quieter and quieter as he sat and stared at the bright delicate
blueness. He did not know how long he sat there or what was happening to
him, but at last he moved as if he were awakening and he got up slowly
and stood on the moss carpet, drawing a long, deep, soft breath and
wondering at himself. Something seemed to have been unbound and released
in him, very quietly.

"What is it?" he said, almost in a whisper, and he passed his hand over
his forehead. "I almost feel as if--I were alive!"

I do not know enough about the wonderfulness of undiscovered things to
be able to explain how this had happened to him. Neither does any one
else yet. He did not understand at all himself--but he remembered this
strange hour months afterward when he was at Misselthwaite again and he
found out quite by accident that on this very day Colin had cried out as
he went into the secret garden:

"I am going to live forever and ever and ever!"

The singular calmness remained with him the rest of the evening and he
slept a new reposeful sleep; but it was not with him very long. He did
not know that it could be kept. By the next night he had opened the
doors wide to his dark thoughts and they had come trooping and rushing
back. He left the valley and went on his wandering way again. But,
strange as it seemed to him, there were minutes--sometimes
half-hours--when, without his knowing why, the black burden seemed to
lift itself again and he knew he was a living man and not a dead one.
Slowly--slowly--for no reason that he knew of--he was "coming alive"
with the garden.

As the golden summer changed into the deeper golden autumn he went to
the Lake of Como. There he found the loveliness of a dream. He spent his
days upon the crystal blueness of the lake or he walked back into the
soft thick verdure of the hills and tramped until he was tired so that
he might sleep. But by this time he had begun to sleep better, he knew,
and his dreams had ceased to be a terror to him.

"Perhaps," he thought, "my body is growing stronger."

It was growing stronger but--because of the rare peaceful hours when his
thoughts were changed--his soul was slowly growing stronger, too. He
began to think of Misselthwaite and wonder if he should not go home. Now
and then he wondered vaguely about his boy and asked himself what he
should feel when he went and stood by the carved four-posted bed again
and looked down at the sharply chiseled ivory-white face while it slept
and the black lashes rimmed so startlingly the close-shut eyes. He
shrank from it.

One marvel of a day he had walked so far that when he returned the moon
was high and full and all the world was purple shadow and silver. The
stillness of lake and shore and wood was so wonderful that he did not go
into the villa he lived in. He walked down to a little bowered terrace
at the water's edge and sat upon a seat and breathed in all the heavenly
scents of the night. He felt the strange calmness stealing over him and
it grew deeper and deeper until he fell asleep.

He did not know when he fell asleep and when he began to dream; his
dream was so real that he did not feel as if he were dreaming. He
remembered afterward how intensely wide awake and alert he had thought
he was. He thought that as he sat and breathed in the scent of the late
roses and listened to the lapping of the water at his feet he heard a
voice calling. It was sweet and clear and happy and far away. It seemed
very far, but he heard it as distinctly as if it had been at his very
side.

"Archie! Archie! Archie!" it said, and then again, sweeter and clearer
than before, "Archie! Archie!"

He thought he sprang to his feet not even startled. It was such a real
voice and it seemed so natural that he should hear it.

"Lilias! Lilias!" he answered. "Lilias! where are you?"

"In the garden," it came back like a sound from a golden flute. "In the
garden!"

And then the dream ended. But he did not awaken. He slept soundly and
sweetly all through the lovely night. When he did awake at last it was
brilliant morning and a servant was standing staring at him. He was an
Italian servant and was accustomed, as all the servants of the villa
were, to accepting without question any strange thing his foreign master
might do. No one ever knew when he would go out or come in or where he
would choose to sleep or if he would roam about the garden or lie in the
boat on the lake all night. The man held a salver with some letters on
it and he waited quietly until Mr. Craven took them. When he had gone
away Mr. Craven sat a few moments holding them in his hand and looking
at the lake. His strange calm was still upon him and something more--a
lightness as if the cruel thing which had been done had not happened as
he thought--as if something had changed. He was remembering the
dream--the real--real dream.

"In the garden!" he said, wondering at himself. "In the garden! But the
door is locked and the key is buried deep."

When he glanced at the letters a few minutes later he saw that the one
lying at the top of the rest was an English letter and came from
Yorkshire. It was directed in a plain woman's hand but it was not a hand
he knew. He opened it, scarcely thinking of the writer, but the first
words attracted his attention at once.

          "_Dear Sir:_

          "I am Susan Sowerby that made bold to speak to you
          once on the moor. It was about Miss Mary I spoke.
          I will make bold to speak again. Please, sir, I
          would come home if I was you. I think you would be
          glad to come and--if you will excuse me, sir--I
          think your lady would ask you to come if she was
          here.

                            "Your obedient servant,
                                            "SUSAN SOWERBY."

Mr. Craven read the letter twice before he put it back in its envelope.
He kept thinking about the dream.

"I will go back to Misselthwaite," he said. "Yes, I'll go at once."

And he went through the garden to the villa and ordered Pitcher to
prepare for his return to England.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a few days he was in Yorkshire again, and on his long railroad
journey he found himself thinking of his boy as he had never thought in
all the ten years past. During those years he had only wished to forget
him. Now, though he did not intend to think about him, memories of him
constantly drifted into his mind. He remembered the black days when he
had raved like a madman because the child was alive and the mother was
dead. He had refused to see it, and when he had gone to look at it at
last it had been such a weak wretched thing that every one had been sure
it would die in a few days. But to the surprise of those who took care
of it the days passed and it lived and then every one believed it would
be a deformed and crippled creature.

He had not meant to be a bad father, but he had not felt like a father
at all. He had supplied doctors and nurses and luxuries, but he had
shrunk from the mere thought of the boy and had buried himself in his
own misery. The first time after a year's absence he returned to
Misselthwaite and the small miserable looking thing languidly and
indifferently lifted to his face the great gray eyes with black lashes
round them, so like and yet so horribly unlike the happy eyes he had
adored, he could not bear the sight of them and turned away pale as
death. After that he scarcely ever saw him except when he was asleep,
and all he knew of him was that he was a confirmed invalid, with a
vicious, hysterical, half-insane temper. He could only be kept from
furies dangerous to himself by being given his own way in every detail.

All this was not an uplifting thing to recall, but as the train whirled
him through mountain passes and golden plains the man who was "coming
alive" began to think in a new way and he thought long and steadily and
deeply.

"Perhaps I have been all wrong for ten years," he said to himself. "Ten
years is a long time. It may be too late to do anything--quite too late.
What have I been thinking of!"

Of course this was the wrong Magic--to begin by saying "too late." Even
Colin could have told him that. But he knew nothing of Magic--either
black or white. This he had yet to learn. He wondered if Susan Sowerby
had taken courage and written to him only because the motherly creature
had realized that the boy was much worse--was fatally ill. If he had not
been under the spell of the curious calmness which had taken possession
of him he would have been more wretched than ever. But the calm had
brought a sort of courage and hope with it. Instead of giving way to
thoughts of the worst he actually found he was trying to believe in
better things.

"Could it be possible that she sees that I may be able to do him good
and control him?" he thought. "I will go and see her on my way to
Misselthwaite."

But when on his way across the moor he stopped the carriage at the
cottage, seven or eight children who were playing about gathered in a
group and bobbing seven or eight friendly and polite curtsies told him
that their mother had gone to the other side of the moor early in the
morning to help a woman who had a new baby. "Our Dickon," they
volunteered, was over at the Manor working in one of the gardens where
he went several days each week.

Mr. Craven looked over the collection of sturdy little bodies and round
red-cheeked faces, each one grinning in its own particular way, and he
awoke to the fact that they were a healthy likable lot. He smiled at
their friendly grins and took a golden sovereign from his pocket and
gave it to "our 'Lizabeth Ellen" who was the oldest.

"If you divide that into eight parts there will be half a crown for each
of you," he said.

Then amid grins and chuckles and bobbing of curtsies he drove away,
leaving ecstasy and nudging elbows and little jumps of joy behind.

The drive across the wonderfulness of the moor was a soothing thing.
Why did it seem to give him a sense of home-coming which he had been
sure he could never feel again--that sense of the beauty of land and sky
and purple bloom of distance and a warming of the heart at drawing
nearer to the great old house which had held those of his blood for six
hundred years? How he had driven away from it the last time, shuddering
to think of its closed rooms and the boy lying in the four-posted bed
with the brocaded hangings. Was it possible that perhaps he might find
him changed a little for the better and that he might overcome his
shrinking from him? How real that dream had been--how wonderful and
clear the voice which called back to him, "In the garden--In the
garden!"

"I will try to find the key," he said. "I will try to open the door. I
must--though I don't know why."

When he arrived at the Manor the servants who received him with the
usual ceremony noticed that he looked better and that he did not go to
the remote rooms where he usually lived attended by Pitcher. He went
into the library and sent for Mrs. Medlock. She came to him somewhat
excited and curious and flustered.

"How is Master Colin, Medlock?" he inquired.

"Well, sir," Mrs. Medlock answered, "he's--he's different, in a manner
of speaking."

"Worse?" he suggested.

Mrs. Medlock really was flushed.

"Well, you see, sir," she tried to explain, "neither Dr. Craven, nor the
nurse, nor me can exactly make him out."

"Why is that?"

"To tell the truth, sir, Master Colin might be better and he might be
changing for the worse. His appetite, sir, is past understanding--and
his ways--"

"Has he become more--more peculiar?" her master asked, knitting his
brows anxiously.

"That's it, sir. He's growing very peculiar--when you compare him with
what he used to be. He used to eat nothing and then suddenly he began to
eat something enormous--and then he stopped again all at once and the
meals were sent back just as they used to be. You never knew, sir,
perhaps, that out of doors he never would let himself be taken. The
things we've gone through to get him to go out in his chair would leave
a body trembling like a leaf. He'd throw himself into such a state that
Dr. Craven said he couldn't be responsible for forcing him. Well, sir,
just without warning--not long after one of his worst tantrums he
suddenly insisted on being taken out every day by Miss Mary and Susan
Sowerby's boy Dickon that could push his chair. He took a fancy to both
Miss Mary and Dickon, and Dickon brought his tame animals, and, if
you'll credit it, sir, out of doors he will stay from morning until
night."

"How does he look?" was the next question.

"If he took his food natural, sir, you'd think he was putting on
flesh--but we're afraid it may be a sort of bloat. He laughs sometimes
in a queer way when he's alone with Miss Mary. He never used to laugh at
all. Dr. Craven is coming to see you at once, if you'll allow him. He
never was as puzzled in his life."

"Where is Master Colin now?" Mr. Craven asked.

"In the garden, sir. He's always in the garden--though not a human
creature is allowed to go near for fear they'll look at him."

Mr. Craven scarcely heard her last words.

"In the garden," he said, and after he had sent Mrs. Medlock away he
stood and repeated it again and again. "In the garden!"

He had to make an effort to bring himself back to the place he was
standing in and when he felt he was on earth again he turned and went
out of the room. He took his way, as Mary had done, through the door in
the shrubbery and among the laurels and the fountain beds. The fountain
was playing now and was encircled by beds of brilliant autumn flowers.
He crossed the lawn and turned into the Long Walk by the ivied walls. He
did not walk quickly, but slowly, and his eyes were on the path. He felt
as if he were being drawn back to the place he had so long forsaken, and
he did not know why. As he drew near to it his step became still more
slow. He knew where the door was even though the ivy hung thick over
it--but he did not know exactly where it lay--that buried key.

So he stopped and stood still, looking about him, and almost the moment
after he had paused he started and listened--asking himself if he were
walking in a dream.

The ivy hung thick over the door, the key was buried under the shrubs,
no human being had passed that portal for ten lonely years--and yet
inside the garden there were sounds. They were the sounds of running
scuffling feet seeming to chase round and round under the trees, they
were strange sounds of lowered suppressed voices--exclamations and
smothered joyous cries. It seemed actually like the laughter of young
things, the uncontrollable laughter of children who were trying not to
be heard but who in a moment or so--as their excitement mounted--would
burst forth. What in heaven's name was he dreaming of--what in heaven's
name did he hear? Was he losing his reason and thinking he heard things
which were not for human ears? Was it that the far clear voice had
meant?

And then the moment came, the uncontrollable moment when the sounds
forgot to hush themselves. The feet ran faster and faster--they were
nearing the garden door--there was quick strong young breathing and a
wild outbreak of laughing shouts which could not be contained--and the
door in the wall was flung wide open, the sheet of ivy swinging back,
and a boy burst through it at full speed and, without seeing the
outsider, dashed almost into his arms.

Mr. Craven had extended them just in time to save him from falling as a
result of his unseeing dash against him, and when he held him away to
look at him in amazement at his being there he truly gasped for breath.

He was a tall boy and a handsome one. He was glowing with life and his
running had sent splendid color leaping to his face. He threw the thick
hair back from his forehead and lifted a pair of strange gray eyes--eyes
full of boyish laughter and rimmed with black lashes like a fringe. It
was the eyes which made Mr. Craven gasp for breath.

"Who--What? Who!" he stammered.

This was not what Colin had expected--this was not what he had planned.
He had never thought of such a meeting. And yet to come dashing
out--winning a race--perhaps it was even better. He drew himself up to
his very tallest. Mary, who had been running with him and had dashed
through the door too, believed that he managed to make himself look
taller than he had ever looked before--inches taller.

"Father," he said, "I'm Colin. You can't believe it. I scarcely can
myself. I'm Colin."

Like Mrs. Medlock, he did not understand what his father meant when he
said hurriedly:

"In the garden! In the garden!"

"Yes," hurried on Colin. "It was the garden that did it--and Mary and
Dickon and the creatures--and the Magic. No one knows. We kept it to
tell you when you came. I'm well, I can beat Mary in a race. I'm going
to be an athlete."

He said it all so like a healthy boy--his face flushed, his words
tumbling over each other in his eagerness--that Mr. Craven's soul shook
with unbelieving joy.

Colin put out his hand and laid it on his father's arm.

"Aren't you glad, Father?" he ended.

"Aren't you glad? I'm going to live forever and ever and ever!"

Mr. Craven put his hands on both the boy's shoulders and held him still.
He knew he dared not even try to speak for a moment.

"Take me into the garden, my boy," he said at last. "And tell me all
about it."

And so they led him in.

The place was a wilderness of autumn gold and purple and violet blue and
flaming scarlet and on every side were sheaves of late lilies standing
together--lilies which were white or white and ruby. He remembered well
when the first of them had been planted that just at this season of the
year their late glories should reveal themselves. Late roses climbed and
hung and clustered and the sunshine deepening the hue of the yellowing
trees made one feel that one stood in an embowered temple of gold. The
newcomer stood silent just as the children had done when they came into
its grayness. He looked round and round.

"I thought it would be dead," he said.

"Mary thought so at first," said Colin. "But it came alive."

Then they sat down under their tree--all but Colin, who wanted to stand
while he told the story.

It was the strangest thing he had ever heard, Archibald Craven thought,
as it was poured forth in headlong boy fashion. Mystery and Magic and
wild creatures, the weird midnight meeting--the coming of the
spring--the passion of insulted pride which had dragged the young Rajah
to his feet to defy old Ben Weatherstaff to his face. The odd
companionship, the play acting, the great secret so carefully kept. The
listener laughed until tears came into his eyes and sometimes tears came
into his eyes when he was not laughing. The Athlete, the Lecturer, the
Scientific Discoverer was a laughable, lovable, healthy young human
thing.

"Now," he said at the end of the story, "it need not be a secret any
more. I dare say it will frighten them nearly into fits when they see
me--but I am never going to get into the chair again. I shall walk back
with you, Father--to the house."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ben Weatherstaff's duties rarely took him away from the gardens, but on
this occasion he made an excuse to carry some vegetables to the kitchen
and being invited into the servants' hall by Mrs. Medlock to drink a
glass of beer he was on the spot--as he had hoped to be--when the most
dramatic event Misselthwaite Manor had seen during the present
generation actually took place.

One of the windows looking upon the courtyard gave also a glimpse of the
lawn. Mrs. Medlock, knowing Ben had come from the gardens, hoped that he
might have caught sight of his master and even by chance of his meeting
with Master Colin.

"Did you see either of them, Weatherstaff?" she asked.

Ben took his beer-mug from his mouth and wiped his lips with the back of
his hand.

"Aye, that I did," he answered with a shrewdly significant air.

"Both of them?" suggested Mrs. Medlock.

"Both of 'em," returned Ben Weatherstaff. "Thank ye kindly, ma'am, I
could sup up another mug of it."

"Together?" said Mrs. Medlock, hastily overfilling his beer-mug in her
excitement.

"Together, ma'am," and Ben gulped down half of his new mug at one gulp.

"Where was Master Colin? How did he look? What did they say to each
other?"

"I didna' hear that," said Ben, "along o' only bein' on th' step-ladder
lookin' over th' wall. But I'll tell thee this. There's been things
goin' on outside as you house people knows nowt about. An' what tha'll
find out tha'll find out soon."

And it was not two minutes before he swallowed the last of his beer and
waved his mug solemnly toward the window which took in through the
shrubbery a piece of the lawn.

"Look there," he said, "if tha's curious. Look what's comin' across th'
grass."

When Mrs. Medlock looked she threw up her hands and gave a little shriek
and every man and woman servant within hearing bolted across the
servants' hall and stood looking through the window with their eyes
almost starting out of their heads.

Across the lawn came the Master of Misselthwaite and he looked as many
of them had never seen him. And by his side with his head up in the air
and his eyes full of laughter walked as strongly and steadily as any boy
in Yorkshire--Master Colin!
Courage and stupidity were all he had.
They desperately needed another drummer since the current one only knew how to play bongos.
Please put on these earmuffs because I can't you hear.
The spa attendant applied the deep cleaning mask to the gentleman’s back.
The underground bunker was filled with chips and candy.
She looked into the mirror and saw another person.
She looked at the masterpiece hanging in the museum but all she could think is that her five-year-old could do better.
The golden retriever loved the fireworks each Fourth of July.
It isn't difficult to do a handstand if you just stand on your hands.
To the surprise of everyone, the Rapture happened yesterday but it didn't quite go as expected.
The lake is a long way from here.
She had that tint of craziness in her soul that made her believe she could actually make a difference.
He played the game as if his life depended on it and the truth was that it did.
He decided that the time had come to be stronger than any of the excuses he'd used until then.
He didn't heed the warning and it had turned out surprisingly well.
I was very proud of my nickname throughout high school but today- I couldn’t be any different to what my nickname was.
He poured rocks in the dungeon of his mind.
He had a wall full of masks so she could wear a different face every day.
I made myself a peanut butter sandwich as I didn't want to subsist on veggie crackers.
She always had an interesting perspective on why the world must be flat.
The beauty of the sunset was obscured by the industrial cranes.
He strives to keep the best lawn in the neighborhood.
They throw cabbage that turns your brain into emotional baggage.
The water flowing down the river didn’t look that powerful from the car
He loved eating his bananas in hot dog buns.
She was sad to hear that fireflies are facing extinction due to artificial light, habitat loss, and pesticides.
The bug was having an excellent day until he hit the windshield.
He wondered if it could be called a beach if there was no sand.
I had a friend in high school named Rick Shaw, but he was fairly useless as a mode of transport.
Lets all be unique together until we realise we are all the same.
It isn't true that my mattress is made of cotton candy.
She wore green lipstick like a fashion icon.
He felt that dining on the bridge brought romance to his relationship with his cat.
The worst thing about being at the top of the career ladder is that there's a long way to fall.
Mr. Montoya knows the way to the bakery even though he's never been there.
Greetings from the galaxy MACS0647-JD, or what we call home.
The estate agent quickly marked out his territory on the dance floor.
I covered my friend in baby oil.
It's never comforting to know that your fate depends on something as unpredictable as the popping of corn.
The tree fell unexpectedly short.
Mary plays the piano.
Little Red Riding Hood decided to wear orange today.
The changing of down comforters to cotton bedspreads always meant the squirrels had returned.
The teenage boy was accused of breaking his arm simply to get out of the test.
25 years later, she still regretted that specific moment.
There should have been a time and a place, but this wasn't it.
One small action would change her life, but whether it would be for better or for worse was yet to be determined.
I thought red would have felt warmer in summer but I didn't think about the equator.
Strawberries must be the one food that doesn't go well with this brand of paint.
It's a skateboarding penguin with a sunhat!
The shooter says goodbye to his love.
The urgent care center was flooded with patients after the news of a new deadly virus was made public.
The bread dough reminded her of Santa Clause’s belly.
Italy is my favorite country; in fact, I plan to spend two weeks there next year.
The blue parrot drove by the hitchhiking mongoose.
It didn't take long for Gary to detect the robbers were amateurs.
People who insist on picking their teeth with their elbows are so annoying!
The fish dreamed of escaping the fishbowl and into the toilet where he saw his friend go.
Her daily goal was to improve on yesterday.
The sudden rainstorm washed crocodiles into the ocean.
He told us a very exciting adventure story.
Sometimes you have to just give up and win by cheating.
Baby wipes are made of chocolate stardust.
Smoky the Bear secretly started the fires.
With the high wind warning
Written warnings in instruction manuals are worthless since rabbits can't read.
He invested some skill points in Charisma and Strength.
The sunblock was handed to the girl before practice, but the burned skin was proof she did not apply it.
Her life in the confines of the house became her new normal.
The gloves protect my feet from excess work.
He had a vague sense that trees gave birth to dinosaurs.
In hopes of finding out the truth, he entered the one-room library.
We're careful about orange ping pong balls because people might think they're fruit.
Despite what your teacher may have told you, there is a wrong way to wield a lasso.
Last Friday I saw a spotted striped blue worm shake hands with a legless lizard.
Nancy decided to make the porta-potty her home.
I liked their first two albums but changed my mind after that charity gig.
The tart lemonade quenched her thirst, but not her longing.
As he looked out the window, he saw a clown walk by.
The best part of marriage is animal crackers with peanut butter.
100 years old is such a young age if you happen to be a bristlecone pine.
People generally approve of dogs eating cat food but not cats eating dog food.
The minute she landed she understood the reason this was a fly-over state.
When he asked her favorite number, she answered without hesitation that it was diamonds.
At that moment she realized she had a sixth sense.
The tortoise jumped into the lake with dreams of becoming a sea turtle.
He wasn't bitter that she had moved on but from the radish.
Of course, she loves her pink bunny slippers.
She lived on Monkey Jungle Road and that seemed to explain all of her strangeness.
She found it strange that people use their cellphones to actually talk to one another.
My secretary is the only person who truly understands my stamp-collecting obsession.
Her fragrance of choice was fresh garlic.
He was so preoccupied with whether or not he could that he failed to stop to consider if he should.
As she walked along the street and looked in the gutter, she realized facemasks had become the new cigarette butts.
As he waited for the shower to warm, he noticed that he could hear water change temperature.
Jason didn’t understand why his parents wouldn’t let him sell his little sister at the garage sale.
Sixty-Four comes asking for bread.
Cats are good pets, for they are clean and are not noisy.
Too many prisons have become early coffins.
All she wanted was the answer, but she had no idea how much she would hate it.
You have every right to be angry, but that doesn't give you the right to be mean.
Traveling became almost extinct during the pandemic.
If you spin around three times, you'll start to feel melancholy.
They say that dogs are man's best friend, but this cat was setting out to sabotage that theory.
He was disappointed when he found the beach to be so sandy and the sun so sunny.
The three-year-old girl ran down the beach as the kite flew behind her.
His mind was blown that there was nothing in space except space itself.
Shakespeare was a famous 17th-century diesel mechanic.
8% of 25 is the same as 25% of 8 and one of them is much easier to do in your head.
Standing on one's head at job interviews forms a lasting impression.
When transplanting seedlings, candied teapots will make the task easier.
The thunderous roar of the jet overhead confirmed her worst fears.
The light that burns twice as bright burns half as long.
The fish listened intently to what the frogs had to say.
The group quickly understood that toxic waste was the most effective barrier to use against the zombies.
I know many children ask for a pony, but I wanted a bicycle with rockets strapped to it.
The river stole the gods.
The elderly neighborhood became enraged over the coyotes who had been blamed for the poodle’s disappearance.
The best key lime pie is still up for debate.
She had the gift of being able to paint songs.
Grape jelly was leaking out the hole in the roof.
The external scars tell only part of the story.
When motorists sped in and out of traffic, all she could think of was those in need of a transplant.
She was the type of girl who wanted to live in a pink house.
There's probably enough glass in my cupboard to build an undersea aquarium.
He set out for a short walk, but now all he could see were mangroves and water were for miles.
She let the balloon float up into the air with her hopes and dreams.
That must be the tenth time I've been arrested for selling deep-fried cigars.
It was getting dark, and we weren’t there yet.
His ultimate dream fantasy consisted of being content and sleeping eight hours in a row.
When money was tight, he'd get his lunch money from the local wishing well.
He put heat on the wound to see what would grow.
He decided water-skiing on a frozen lake wasn’t a good idea.
Poison ivy grew through the fence they said was impenetrable.
You'll see the rainbow bridge after it rains cats and dogs.
At last
The wooden spoon couldn’t cut but left emotional scars.
Now I need to ponder my existence and ask myself if I'm truly real
The trick to getting kids to eat anything is to put catchup on it.
I used to live in my neighbor's fishpond, but the aesthetic wasn't to my taste.
The secret code they created made no sense, even to them.
Hang on, my kittens are scratching at the bathtub and they'll upset by the lack of biscuits.
Joe discovered that traffic cones make excellent megaphones.
He colored deep space a soft yellow.
His confidence would have bee admirable if it wasn't for his stupidity.
He wondered why at 18 he was old enough to go to war, but not old enough to buy cigarettes.
The hummingbird's wings blurred while it eagerly sipped the sugar water from the feeder.
Everyone pretends to like wheat until you mention barley.
It took me too long to realize that the ceiling hadn't been painted to look like the sky.
She always speaks to him in a loud voice.
The pigs were insulted that they were named hamburgers.
I would be delighted if the sea were full of cucumber juice.
He hated that he loved what she hated about hate.
Pink horses galloped across the sea.
Flash photography is best used in full sunlight.
Every manager should be able to recite at least ten nursery rhymes backward.
The hawk didn’t understand why the ground squirrels didn’t want to be his friend.
He walked into the basement with the horror movie from the night before playing in his head.
Please tell me you don't work in a morgue.
Everybody should read Chaucer to improve their everyday vocabulary.
Everyone was curious about the large white blimp that appeared overnight.
The fifty mannequin heads floating in the pool kind of freaked them out.
The irony of the situation wasn't lost on anyone in the room.
The doll spun around in circles in hopes of coming alive.
A suit of armor provides excellent sun protection on hot days.
David proudly graduated from high school top of his class at age 97.
He had a hidden stash underneath the floorboards in the back room of the house.
Never underestimate the willingness of the greedy to throw you under the bus.
It didn't make sense unless you had the power to eat colors.
The pet shop stocks everything you need to keep your anaconda happy.
Doris enjoyed tapping her nails on the table to annoy everyone.
The skeleton had skeletons of his own in the closet.
They were excited to see their first sloth.
Nudist colonies shun fig-leaf couture.
Bill ran from the giraffe toward the dolphin.
We should play with legos at camp.
You're good at English when you know the difference between a man eating chicken and a man-eating chicken.
It's important to remember to be aware of rampaging grizzly bears.
As you consider all the possible ways to improve yourself and the world, you notice John Travolta seems fairly unhappy.
He knew it was going to be a bad day when he saw mountain lions roaming the streets.
Sometimes it is better to just walk away from things and go back to them later when you’re in a better frame of mind.
The busker hoped that the people passing by would throw money, but they threw tomatoes instead, so he exchanged his hat for a juicer.
Improve your goldfish's physical fitness by getting him a bicycle.
I honestly find her about as intimidating as a basket of kittens.
I never knew what hardship looked like until it started raining bowling balls.
I'm not a party animal, but I do like animal parties.
Today we gathered moss for my uncle's wedding.
Potato wedges probably are not best for relationships.
I don’t respect anybody who can’t tell the difference between Pepsi and Coke.
Thirty years later, she still thought it was okay to put the toilet paper roll under rather than over.
He found rain fascinating yet unpleasant.
He was willing to find the depths of the rabbit hole in order to be with her.
The fog was so dense even a laser decided it wasn't worth the effort.
Even though he thought the world was flat he didn’t see the irony of wanting to travel around the world.
If you like tuna and tomato sauce, try combining the two, it’s really not as bad as it sounds.
A kangaroo is really just a rabbit on steroids.
I may struggle with geography, but I'm sure I'm somewhere around here.
Patricia found the meaning of life in a bowl of Cheerios.
There was no telling what thoughts would come from the machine.
A dead duck doesn't fly backward.
The stench from the feedlot permeated the car despite having the air conditioning on recycled air.
The old apple revels in its authority.
Peanuts don't grow on trees, but cashews do.
Your girlfriend bought your favorite cookie crisp cereal but forgot to get milk.
There's a growing trend among teenagers of using frisbees as go-cart wheels.
It was obvious she was hot, sweaty, and tired.
Today arrived with a crash of my car through the garage door.
I'm worried by the fact that my daughter looks to the local carpet seller as a role model.
After exploring the abandoned building, he started to believe in ghosts.
Yeah, I think it's a good environment for learning English.
He realized there had been several deaths on this road, but his concern rose when he saw the exact number.
She thought there'd be sufficient time if she hid her watch.
The wake behind the boat told of the past while the open sea for told life in the unknown future.
It was a really good Monday for being a Saturday.
He swore he just saw his sushi move.
Peter found road kill an excellent way to save money on dinner.
He had accidentally hacked into his company's server.
She wasn't sure whether to be impressed or concerned that he folded underwear in neat little packages.
Her scream silenced the rowdy teenagers.
The light in his life was actually a fire burning all around him.
Despite multiple complications and her near-death experience
I was offended by the suggestion that my baby brother was a jewel thief.
He watched the dancing piglets with panda bear tummies in the swimming pool.
There were three sphered rocks congregating in a cubed room.
As time wore on, simple dog commands turned into full paragraphs explaining why the dog couldn’t do something.
The anaconda was the greatest criminal mastermind in this part of the neighborhood.
He found the end of the rainbow and was surprised at what he found there.
There's a message for you if you look up.
There was no ice cream in the freezer, nor did they have money to go to the store.
Happiness can be found in the depths of chocolate pudding.
He shaved the peach to prove a point.
The thick foliage and intertwined vines made the hike nearly impossible.
There were white out conditions in the town; subsequently, the roads were impassable.
Whenever he saw a red flag warning at the beach he grabbed his surfboard.
I can't believe this is the eighth time I'm smashing open my piggy bank on the same day!
The efficiency with which he paired the socks in the drawer was quite admirable.
He went back to the video to see what had been recorded and was shocked at what he saw.
My uncle's favorite pastime was building cars out of noodles.
She learned that water bottles are no longer just to hold liquid, but they're also status symbols.
The beauty of the African sunset disguised the danger lurking nearby.
He turned in the research paper on Friday; otherwise, he would have not passed the class.
The beach was crowded with snow leopards.
The lyrics of the song sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard.
The tour bus was packed with teenage girls heading toward their next adventure.
Each person who knows you has a different perception of who you are.
When he had to picnic on the beach, he purposely put sand in other people’s food.
Nothing seemed out of place except the washing machine in the bar.
The father handed each child a roadmap at the beginning of the 2-day road trip and explained it was so they could find their way home.
He learned the hardest lesson of his life and had the scars, both physical and mental, to prove it.
If any cop asks you where you were, just say you were visiting Kansas.
Random words in front of other random words create a random sentence.
I checked to make sure that he was still alive.
I've always wanted to go to Tajikistan, but my cat would miss me.
Behind the window was a reflection that only instilled fear.
Homesickness became contagious in the young campers' cabin.
He went on a whiskey diet and immediately lost three days.
For the 216th time, he said he would quit drinking soda after this last Coke.
He wondered if she would appreciate his toenail collection.
The furnace repairman indicated the heating system was acting as an air conditioner.
Normal activities took extraordinary amounts of concentration at the high altitude.
My biggest joy is roasting almonds while stalking prey.
He is good at eating pickles and telling women about his emotional problems.
He was an introvert that extroverts seemed to love.
This is a Japanese doll.
While all her friends were positive that Mary had a sixth sense, she knew she actually had a seventh sense.
Today is the day I'll finally know what brick tastes like.
That is an appealing treasure map that I can't read.
Flesh-colored yoga pants were far worse than even he feared.
The waitress was not amused when he ordered green eggs and ham.
I'm confused: when people ask me what's up, and I point, they groan.
Garlic ice-cream was her favorite.
The knives were out and she was sharpening hers.
There were a lot of paintings of monkeys waving bamboo sticks in the gallery.
When I cook spaghetti, I like to boil it a few minutes past al dente so the noodles are super slippery.
He's in a boy band which doesn't make much sense for a snake.
I ate a sock because people on the Internet told me to.
The clouds formed beautiful animals in the sky that eventually created a tornado to wreak havoc.
It dawned on her that others could make her happier, but only she could make herself happy.
The fact that there's a stairway to heaven and a highway to hell explains life well.
She was disgusted he couldn’t tell the difference between lemonade and limeade.
All you need to do is pick up the pen and begin.
She works two jobs to make ends meet; at least, that was her reason for not having time to join us.
The rain pelted the windshield as the darkness engulfed us.
The efficiency we have at removing trash has made creating trash more acceptable.
Pair your designer cowboy hat with scuba gear for a memorable occasion.
People keep telling me "orange" but I still prefer "pink".
I'd always thought lightning was something only I could see.
Kevin embraced his ability to be at the wrong place at the wrong time.
Most shark attacks occur about 10 feet from the beach since that's where the people are.
Henry couldn't decide if he was an auto mechanic or a priest.
I only enjoy window shopping when the windows are transparent.
Even with the snow falling outside, she felt it appropriate to wear her bikini.
My dentist tells me that chewing bricks is very bad for your teeth.
He picked up trash in his spare time to dump in his neighbor's yard.
She did her best to help him.
As the years pass by, we all know owners look more and more like their dogs.
He ran out of money, so he had to stop playing poker.
The sun had set and so had his dreams.
The waves were crashing on the shore; it was a lovely sight.
There have been days when I wished to be separated from my body, but today wasn’t one of those days.
It's not possible to convince a monkey to give you a banana by promising it infinite bananas when they die.
There aren't enough towels in the world to stop the sewage flowing from his mouth.
Wisdom is easily acquired when hiding under the bed with a saucepan on your head.
Facing his greatest fear, he ate his first marshmallow.
She was too short to see over the fence.
He decided to count all the sand on the beach as a hobby.
The view from the lighthouse excited even the most seasoned traveler.
I am counting my calories, yet I really want dessert.
Hit me with your pet shark!
She did a happy dance because all of the socks from the dryer matched.
It was always dangerous to drive with him since he insisted the safety cones were a slalom course.
The heat
His thought process was on so many levels that he gave himself a phobia of heights.
You bite up because of your lower jaw.
I was starting to worry that my pet turtle could tell what I was thinking.
I used to practice weaving with spaghetti three hours a day but stopped because I didn't want to die alone.
Tuesdays are free if you bring a gnome costume.
My Mum tries to be cool by saying that she likes all the same things that I do.
The father died during childbirth.
Various sea birds are elegant, but nothing is as elegant as a gliding pelican.
I think I will buy the red car, or I will lease the blue one.
She only paints with bold colors; she does not like pastels.
The old rusted farm equipment surrounded the house predicting its demise.
It's much more difficult to play tennis with a bowling ball than it is to bowl with a tennis ball.
The hand sanitizer was actually clear glue.
I want more detailed information.
His get rich quick scheme was to grow a cactus farm.
Had he known what was going to happen, he would have never stepped into the shower.
Not all people who wander are lost.
The mysterious diary records the voice.
I’m a living furnace.
He created a pig burger out of beef.
They ran around the corner to find that they had traveled back in time.
The gruff old man sat in the back of the bait shop grumbling to himself as he scooped out a handful of worms.
The elephant didn't want to talk about the person in the room.
Mary realized if her calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than her computer browser history.
As he entered the church he could hear the soft voice of someone whispering into a cell phone.
Instead of a bachelorette party
The tears of a clown make my lipstick run, but my shower cap is still intact.
The complicated school homework left the parents trying to help their kids quite confused.
Cursive writing is the best way to build a race track.
I want to buy a onesie… but know it won’t suit me.
She borrowed the book from him many years ago and hasn't yet returned it.
Someone I know recently combined Maple Syrup & buttered Popcorn thinking it would taste like caramel popcorn. It didn’t and they don’t recommend anyone else do it either.
The crowd yells and screams for more memes.
The bullet pierced the window shattering it before missing Danny's head by mere millimeters.
He excelled at firing people nicely.
The miniature pet elephant became the envy of the neighborhood.
She was the type of girl that always burnt sugar to show she cared.
Carol drank the blood as if she were a vampire.
Barking dogs and screaming toddlers have the unique ability to turn friendly neighbors into cranky enemies.
Be careful with that butter knife.
The book is in front of the table.
When confronted with a rotary dial phone the teenager was perplexed.
It caught him off guard that space smelled of seared steak.
He found a leprechaun in his walnut shell.
Gwen had her best sleep ever on her new bed of nails.
You're unsure whether or not to trust him, but very thankful that you wore a turtle neck.
The body piercing didn't go exactly as he expected.
Joe made the sugar cookies; Susan decorated them.
Car safety systems have come a long way, but he was out to prove they could be outsmarted.
Tomatoes make great weapons when water balloons aren’t available.
She saw no irony asking me to change but wanting me to accept her for who she is.
The near-death experience brought new ideas to light.
Fluffy pink unicorns are a popular status symbol among macho men.
Writing a list of random sentences is harder than I initially thought it would be.
She felt that chill that makes the hairs on the back of your neck when he walked into the room.
Although it wasn't a pot of gold, Nancy was still enthralled at what she found at the end of the rainbow.
Everything was going so well until I was accosted by a purple giraffe.
The chic gangster liked to start the day with a pink scarf.
They decided to plant an orchard of cotton candy.
The dead trees waited to be ignited by the smallest spark and seek their revenge.
The glacier came alive as the climbers hiked closer.
The memory we used to share is no longer coherent.
I was fishing for compliments and accidentally caught a trout.
Swim at your own risk was taken as a challenge for the group of Kansas City college students.
Dan ate the clouds like cotton candy.
Blue sounded too cold at the time and yet it seemed to work for gin.
He used to get confused between soldiers and shoulders, but as a military man, he now soldiers responsibility.
Harrold felt confident that nobody would ever suspect his spy pigeon.
The stranger officiates the meal.
his seven-layer cake only had six layers.
This is the last random sentence I will be writing and I am going to stop mid-sent
Today I bought a raincoat and wore it on a sunny day.
He spiked his hair green to support his iguana.
Combines are no longer just for farms.
It's always a good idea to seek shelter from the evil gaze of the sun.
Boulders lined the side of the road foretelling what could come next.
After fighting off the alligator, Brian still had to face the anaconda.
The most exciting eureka moment I've had was when I realized that the instructions on food packets were just guidelines.
She was only made the society president because she can whistle with her toes.
A glittering gem is not enough.
He waited for the stop sign to turn to a go sign.
She says she has the ability to hear the soundtrack of your life.
Watching the geriatric men’s softball team brought back memories of 3 yr olds playing t-ball.
He ended up burning his fingers poking someone else's fire.
Sarah ran from the serial killer holding a jug of milk.
Trash covered the landscape like sprinkles do a birthday cake.
The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
Iguanas were falling out of the trees.
He was the type of guy who liked Christmas lights on his house in the middle of July.
She can live her life however she wants as long as she listens to what I have to say.
You have no right to call yourself creative until you look at a trowel and think that it would make a great lockpick.
Joyce enjoyed eating pancakes with ketchup.
There can never be too many cherries on an ice cream sundae.
The rusty nail stood erect, angled at a 45-degree angle, just waiting for the perfect barefoot to come along.
When he encountered maize for the first time, he thought it incredibly corny.
Giving directions that the mountains are to the west only works when you can see them.
Three generations with six decades of life experience.
He quietly entered the museum as the super bowl started.
She used her own hair in the soup to give it more flavor.
If I don’t like something, I’ll stay away from it.
The reservoir water level continued to lower while we enjoyed our long shower.
Best friends are like old tomatoes and shoelaces.
If eating three-egg omelets causes weight-gain, budgie eggs are a good substitute.
Purple is the best city in the forest.
The swirled lollipop had issues with the pop rock candy.
They got there early, and they got really good seats.
They called out her name time and again, but were met with nothing but silence.
The sight of his goatee made me want to run and hide under my sister-in-law's bed.
You've been eyeing me all day and waiting for your move like a lion stalking a gazelle in a savannah.
He uses onomatopoeia as a weapon of mental destruction.
The secret ingredient to his wonderful life was crime.
The toddler’s endless tantrum caused the entire plane anxiety.
I'd rather be a bird than a fish.
I love eating toasted cheese and tuna sandwiches.
He embraced his new life as an eggplant.
She is never happy until she finds something to be unhappy about; then, she is overjoyed.
Stop waiting for exceptional things to just happen.
No matter how beautiful the sunset, it saddened her knowing she was one day older.
I trust everything that's written in purple ink.
The murder hornet was disappointed by the preconceived ideas people had of him.
It's difficult to understand the lengths he'd go to remain short.
She couldn't understand why nobody else could see that the sky is full of cotton candy.
Dan took the deep dive down the rabbit hole.
Just go ahead and press that button.
It was her first experience training a rainbow unicorn.
The small white buoys marked the location of hundreds of crab pots.
He wore the surgical mask in public not to keep from catching a virus, but to keep people away from him.
Truth in advertising and dinosaurs with skateboards have much in common.
There was coal in his stocking and he was thrilled.
It took him a while to realize that everything he decided not to change, he was actually choosing.
Please wait outside of the house.
He said he was not there yesterday; however, many people saw him there.
The opportunity of a lifetime passed before him as he tried to decide between a cone or a cup.
She wrote him a long letter, but he didn't read it.
Always bring cinnamon buns on a deep-sea diving expedition.
There are no heroes in a punk rock band.
She was amazed by the large chunks of ice washing up on the beach.
Andy loved to sleep on a bed of nails.
I currently have 4 windows open up… and I don’t know why.
Everyone was busy, so I went to the movie alone.
Flying fish flew by the space station.
A quiet house is nice until you are ordered to stay in it for months.
You should never take advice from someone who thinks red paint dries quicker than blue paint.
It must be five o'clock somewhere.
We will not allow you to bring your pet armadillo along.
The clock within this blog and the clock on my laptop are 1 hour different from each other.
Buried deep in the snow, he hoped his batteries were fresh in his avalanche beacon.
Gary didn't understand why Doug went upstairs to get one dollar bills when he invited him to go cow tipping.
Karen realized the only way she was getting into heaven was to cheat.
If you don't like toenails, you probably shouldn't look at your feet.
Don't step on the broken glass.
We have a lot of rain in June.
She couldn't decide of the glass was half empty or half full so she drank it.
Toddlers feeding raccoons surprised even the seasoned park ranger.
Peanut butter and jelly caused the elderly lady to think about her past.
He enjoys practicing his ballet in the bathroom.
He had concluded that pigs must be able to fly in Hog Heaven.
It had been sixteen days since the zombies first attacked.
With a single flip of the coin, his life changed forever.
She insisted that cleaning out your closet was the key to good driving.
He dreamed of leaving his law firm to open a portable dog wash.
I come from a tribe of head-hunters, so I will never need a shrink.
Don't piss in my garden and tell me you're trying to help my plants grow.
It doesn't sound like that will ever be on my travel list.
It turns out you don't need all that stuff you insisted you did.
A song can make or ruin a person’s day if they let it get to them.
This book is sure to liquefy your brain.
Acres of almond trees lined the interstate highway which complimented the crazy driving nuts.
Karen believed all traffic laws should be obeyed by all except herself.
Choosing to do nothing is still a choice, after all.
Two seats were vacant.
I really want to go to work, but I am too sick to drive.
It would have been a better night if the guys next to us weren't in the splash zone.
Today I heard something new and unmemorable.
Some bathing suits just shouldn’t be worn by some people.
Honestly, I didn't care much for the first season, so I didn't bother with the second.
At that moment I was the most fearsome weasel in the entire swamp.
Pantyhose and heels are an interesting choice of attire for the beach.
Jason lived his life by the motto, "Anything worth doing is worth doing poorly.
He figured a few sticks of dynamite were easier than a fishing pole to catch fish.
She wondered what his eyes were saying beneath his mirrored sunglasses.
He appeared to be confusingly perplexed.
He barked orders at his daughters but they just stared back with amusement.
The shark-infested South Pine channel was the only way in or out.
She had convinced her kids that any mushroom found on the ground would kill them if they touched it.
The Great Dane looked more like a horse than a dog.
For oil spots on the floor, nothing beats parking a motorbike in the lounge.
He found his art never progressed when he literally used his sweat and tears.
The manager of the fruit stand always sat and only sold vegetables.
He always wore his sunglasses at night.
Nobody loves a pig wearing lipstick.
His son quipped that power bars were nothing more than adult candy bars.
He was 100% into fasting with her until he understood that meant he couldn't eat.
It's never been my responsibility to glaze the donuts.
I'll have you know I've written over fifty novels
I received a heavy fine but it failed to crush my spirit.
The tumbleweed refused to tumble but was more than willing to prance.
When I was little I had a car door slammed shut on my hand and I still remember it quite vividly.
We need to rent a room for our party.
Edith could decide if she should paint her teeth or brush her nails.
The Guinea fowl flies through the air with all the grace of a turtle.
Iron pyrite is the most foolish of all minerals.
He would only survive if he kept the fire going and he could hear thunder in the distance.
Green should have smelled more tranquil, but somehow it just tasted rotten.
I would have gotten the promotion, but my attendance wasn’t good enough.
Today I dressed my unicorn in preparation for the race.
Dolores wouldn't have eaten the meal if she had known what it actually was.
He took one look at what was under the table and noped the hell out of there.
There is no better feeling than staring at a wall with closed eyes.
The bird had a belief that it was really a groundhog.
She had a habit of taking showers in lemonade.
If you really strain your ears, you can just about hear the sound of no one giving a damn.
He decided to fake his disappearance to avoid jail.
Plans for this weekend include turning wine into water.
She advised him to come back at once.
Let me help you with your baggage.
He found the chocolate covered roaches quite tasty.
The child’s favorite Christmas gift was the large box her father’s lawnmower came in.
Excitement replaced fear until the final moment.
He drank life before spitting it out.
He stepped gingerly onto the bridge knowing that enchantment awaited on the other side.
In that instant, everything changed.
She traveled because it cost the same as therapy and was a lot more enjoyable.
Malls are great places to shop; I can find everything I need under one roof.
He decided to live his life by the big beats manifesto.
It was a slippery slope and he was willing to slide all the way to the deepest depths.
Nothing is as cautiously cuddly as a pet porcupine.
Martha came to the conclusion that shake weights are a great gift for any occasion.
Waffles are always better without fire ants and fleas.
I met an interesting turtle while the song on the radio blasted away.
The fox in the tophat whispered into the ear of the rabbit.
Don't put peanut butter on the dog's nose.
Abstraction is often one floor above you.
I love bacon, beer, birds, and baboons.
As the asteroid hurtled toward earth, Becky was upset her dentist appointment had been canceled.
The two walked down the slot canyon oblivious to the sound of thunder in the distance.
They looked up at the sky and saw a million stars.
While on the first date he accidentally hit his head on the beam.
The ants enjoyed the barbecue more than the family.
She moved forward only because she trusted that the ending she now was going through must be followed by a new beginning.
As the rental car rolled to a stop on the dark road, her fear increased by the moment.
I always dreamed about being stranded on a desert island until it actually happened.
Jim liked driving around town with his hazard lights on.
Douglas figured the best way to succeed was to do the opposite of what he'd been doing all his life.
When she didn’t like a guy who was trying to pick her up, she started using sign language.
As he dangled from the rope deep inside the crevasse
She wanted a pet platypus but ended up getting a duck and a ferret instead.
More RVs were seen in the storage lot than at the campground.
Going from child, to childish, to childlike is only a matter of time.
There are over 500 starfish in the bathroom drawer.
I am my aunt's sister's daughter.
I like to leave work after my eight-hour tea-break.
They say people remember important moments in their life well, yet no one even remembers their own birth.
He fumbled in the darkness looking for the light switch, but when he finally found it there was someone already there.
Red is greener than purple, for sure.
We have never been to Asia, nor have we visited Africa.
She could hear him in the shower singing with a joy she hoped he'd retain after she delivered the news.
Before he moved to the inner city, he had always believed that security complexes were psychological.
Warm beer on a cold day isn't my idea of fun.
I am happy to take your donation; any amount will be greatly appreciated.
He looked behind the door and didn't like what he saw.
The Japanese yen for commerce is still well-known.
Siri became confused when we reused to follow her directions.
She tilted her head back and let whip cream stream into her mouth while taking a bath.
The white water rafting trip was suddenly halted by the unexpected brick wall.
The family’s excitement over going to Disneyland was crazier than she anticipated.
I want a giraffe, but I'm a turtle eating waffles.
He was sure the Devil created red sparkly glitter.
After coating myself in vegetable oil I found my success rate skyrocketed.
He didn't understand why the bird wanted to ride the bicycle.
I cheated while playing the darts tournament by using a longbow.
Being unacquainted with the chief raccoon was harming his prospects for promotion.
She hadn't had her cup of coffee, and that made things all the worse.
The sky is clear; the stars are twinkling.
He never understood why what, when, and where left out who.
The door swung open to reveal pink giraffes and red elephants.
They're playing the piano while flying in the plane.
Their argument could be heard across the parking lot.
He liked to play with words in the bathtub.
The sign said there was road work ahead so he decided to speed up.
A purple pig and a green donkey flew a kite in the middle of the night and ended up sunburnt.
She was too busy always talking about what she wanted to do to actually do any of it.
He stomped on his fruit loops and thus became a cereal killer.
He dreamed of eating green apples with worms.
He was surprised that his immense laziness was inspirational to others.
Twin 4-month-olds slept in the shade of the palm tree while the mother tanned in the sun.
You can't compare apples and oranges, but what about bananas and plantains?
We have young kids who often walk into our room at night for various reasons including clowns in the closet.
The truth is that you pay for your lifestyle in hours.
Seek success, but always be prepared for random cats.
He is no James Bond; his name is Roger Moore.
She had some amazing news to share but nobody to share it with.
That was how he came to win $1 million.
At that moment he wasn't listening to music, he was living an experience.
Nobody has encountered an explosive daisy and lived to tell the tale.
She opened up her third bottle of wine of the night.
Shingle color was not something the couple had ever talked about.
The paintbrush was angry at the color the artist chose to use.
I'm a great listener, really good with empathy vs sympathy and all that, but I hate people.
She folded her handkerchief neatly.
She wanted to be rescued, but only if it was Tuesday and raining.
The virus had powers none of us knew existed.
So long and thanks for the fish.
He had unknowingly taken up sleepwalking as a nighttime hobby.
She cried diamonds.
You realize you're not alone as you sit in your bedroom massaging your calves after a long day of playing tug-of-war with Grandpa Joe in the hospital.
David subscribes to the "stuff your tent into the bag" strategy over nicely folding it.
The snow-covered path was no help in finding his way out of the back-country.
Patricia loves the sound of nails strongly pressed against the chalkboard.
He had reached the point where he was paranoid about being paranoid.
Rock music approaches at high velocity.
There are few things better in life than a slice of pie.
Sometimes I stare at a door or a wall and I wonder what is this reality, why am I alive, and what is this all about?
He learned the important lesson that a picnic at the beach on a windy day is a bad idea.
On a scale from one to ten, what's your favorite flavor of random grammar?
Having no hair made him look even hairier.
I’m working on a sweet potato farm.
They finished building the road they knew no one would ever use.
It was the best sandcastle he had ever seen.
They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
Check back tomorrow; I will see if the book has arrived.
Situps are a terrible way to end your day.
Getting up at dawn is for the birds.
Greetings from the real universe.
Everyone says they love nature until they realize how dangerous she can be.
In the end, he realized he could see sound and hear words.
Lucifer was surprised at the amount of life at Death Valley.
The delicious aroma from the kitchen was ruined by cigarette smoke.
Two more days and all his problems would be solved.
Thigh-high in the water, the fisherman’s hope for dinner soon turned to despair.
Nancy was proud that she ran a tight shipwreck.
When nobody is around, the trees gossip about the people who have walked under them.
Love is not like pizza.
There's no reason a hula hoop can't also be a circus ring.
Three years later, the coffin was still full of Jello.
Jerry liked to look at paintings while eating garlic ice cream.
Charles ate the french fries knowing they would be his last meal.
It was the first time he had ever seen someone cook dinner on an elephant.
Mom didn’t understand why no one else wanted a hot tub full of jello.
I often see the time 11:11 or 12:34 on clocks.
It was at that moment that he learned there are certain parts of the body that you should never Nair.
He didn’t want to go to the dentist, yet he went anyway.
Lightning Paradise was the local hangout joint where the group usually ended up spending the night.
They improved dramatically once the lead singer left.
Chocolate covered crickets were his favorite snack.
Nobody questions who built the pyramids in Mexico.
Weather is not trivial - it's especially important when you're standing in it.
Sometimes, all you need to do is completely make an ass of yourself and laugh it off to realise that life isn’t so bad after all.
It must be easy to commit crimes as a snake because you don't have to worry about leaving fingerprints.
Beach-combing replaced wine tasting as his new obsession.
I am never at home on Sundays.
Art doesn't have to be intentional.
The teens wondered what was kept in the red shed on the far edge of the school grounds.
The overpass went under the highway and into a secret world.
I purchased a baby clown from the Russian terrorist black market.
She had a difficult time owning up to her own crazy self.
For some unfathomable reason, the response team didn't consider a lack of milk for my cereal as a proper emergency.
The door slammed on the watermelon.
Her hair was windswept as she rode in the black convertible.
Mothers spend months of their lives waiting on their children.
The ice-cream trucks bring back bad memories for all of us.
The Tsunami wave crashed against the raised houses and broke the pilings as if they were toothpicks.
There's an art to getting your way, and spitting olive pits across the table isn't it.
He kept telling himself that one day it would all somehow make sense.
I caught my squirrel rustling through my gym bag.
Just because the water is red doesn't mean you can't drink it.
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.
Imagine his surprise when he discovered that the safe was full of pudding.
The llama couldn't resist trying the lemonade.
The fence was confused about whether it was supposed to keep things in or keep things out.
The tattered work gloves speak of the many hours of hard labor he endured throughout his life.
Erin accidentally created a new universe.
Pat ordered a ghost pepper pie.
He was sitting in a trash can with high street class.
She did not cheat on the test, for it was not the right thing to do.
Tom got a small piece of pie.
There's a reason that roses have thorns.
The blinking lights of the antenna tower came into focus just as I heard a loud snap.
She finally understood that grief was her love with no place for it to go.
It was difficult for Mary to admit that most of her workout consisted of exercising poor judgment.
I've never seen a more beautiful brandy glass filled with wine.
It's not often you find a soggy banana on the street.
I became paranoid that the school of jellyfish was spying on me.
The balloons floated away along with all my hopes and dreams.
The green tea and avocado smoothie turned out exactly as would be expected.
Eating eggs on Thursday for choir practice was recommended.
He had decided to accept his fate of accepting his fate.
On each full moon
I hear that Nancy is very pretty.
All they could see was the blue water surrounding their sailboat.
The bees decided to have a mutiny against their queen.
They did nothing as the raccoon attacked the lady’s bag of food.
Jeanne wished she has chosen the red button.
Nancy thought the best way to create a welcoming home was to line it with barbed wire.
The random sentence generator generated a random sentence about a random sentence.
I've traveled all around Africa and still haven't found the gnu who stole my scarf.
She found his complete dullness interesting.
Tomorrow will bring something new, so leave today as a memory.
He was all business when he wore his clown suit.
The newly planted trees were held up by wooden frames in hopes they could survive the next storm.
I just wanted to tell you I could see the love you have for your child by the way you look at her.
She discovered van life is difficult with 2 cats and a dog.
Separation anxiety is what happens when you can't find your phone.
A good example of a useful vegetable is medicinal rhubarb.
If my calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than my browser history.
It took him a month to finish the meal.
She saw the brake lights, but not in time.
This made him feel like an old-style rootbeer float smells.
The team members were hard to tell apart since they all wore their hair in a ponytail.
It was the scarcity that fueled his creativity.
Jenny made the announcement that her baby was an alien.
He was the only member of the club who didn't like plum pudding.
Being unacquainted with the chief raccoon was harming his prospects for promotion.
Fluffy pink unicorns are a popular status symbol among macho men.
Beach-combing replaced wine tasting as his new obsession.
Dan took the deep dive down the rabbit hole.
She was the type of girl that always burnt sugar to show she cared.
Flying fish flew by the space station.
Even with the snow falling outside, she felt it appropriate to wear her bikini.
He drank life before spitting it out.
It was always dangerous to drive with him since he insisted the safety cones were a slalom course.
I don’t respect anybody who can’t tell the difference between Pepsi and Coke.
They desperately needed another drummer since the current one only knew how to play bongos.
Smoky the Bear secretly started the fires.
It doesn't sound like that will ever be on my travel list.
Nancy thought the best way to create a welcoming home was to line it with barbed wire.
Last Friday I saw a spotted striped blue worm shake hands with a legless lizard.
He never understood why what, when, and where left out who.
The waves were crashing on the shore; it was a lovely sight.
He decided that the time had come to be stronger than any of the excuses he'd used until then.
He decided to live his life by the big beats manifesto.
I checked to make sure that he was still alive.
Tom got a small piece of pie.
She discovered van life is difficult with 2 cats and a dog.
After exploring the abandoned building, he started to believe in ghosts.
I am happy to take your donation; any amount will be greatly appreciated.
She was amazed by the large chunks of ice washing up on the beach.
She wore green lipstick like a fashion icon.
Two more days and all his problems would be solved.
A purple pig and a green donkey flew a kite in the middle of the night and ended up sunburnt.
He was 100% into fasting with her until he understood that meant he couldn't eat.
He had a vague sense that trees gave birth to dinosaurs.
It was the first time he had ever seen someone cook dinner on an elephant.
They decided to plant an orchard of cotton candy.
The teens wondered what was kept in the red shed on the far edge of the school grounds.
Thigh-high in the water, the fisherman’s hope for dinner soon turned to despair.
She tilted her head back and let whip cream stream into her mouth while taking a bath.
The pigs were insulted that they were named hamburgers.
There's a growing trend among teenagers of using frisbees as go-cart wheels.
She saw no irony asking me to change but wanting me to accept her for who she is.
Yeah, I think it's a good environment for learning English.
The wooden spoon couldn’t cut but left emotional scars.
She had a difficult time owning up to her own crazy self.
The three-year-old girl ran down the beach as the kite flew behind her.
At that moment she realized she had a sixth sense.
She let the balloon float up into the air with her hopes and dreams.
Some bathing suits just shouldn’t be worn by some people.
There were a lot of paintings of monkeys waving bamboo sticks in the gallery.
It must be easy to commit crimes as a snake because you don't have to worry about leaving fingerprints.
She thought there'd be sufficient time if she hid her watch.
The irony of the situation wasn't lost on anyone in the room.
He looked behind the door and didn't like what he saw.
The small white buoys marked the location of hundreds of crab pots.
Everybody should read Chaucer to improve their everyday vocabulary.
He colored deep space a soft yellow.
Three generations with six decades of life experience.
He decided to count all the sand on the beach as a hobby.
This book is sure to liquefy your brain.
The mysterious diary records the voice.
A quiet house is nice until you are ordered to stay in it for months.
Peanuts don't grow on trees, but cashews do.
Mary realized if her calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than her computer browser history.
8% of 25 is the same as 25% of 8 and one of them is much easier to do in your head.
When transplanting seedlings, candied teapots will make the task easier.
She couldn't decide of the glass was half empty or half full so she drank it.
Trash covered the landscape like sprinkles do a birthday cake.
Each person who knows you has a different perception of who you are.
I liked their first two albums but changed my mind after that charity gig.
The tree fell unexpectedly short.
More RVs were seen in the storage lot than at the campground.
My Mum tries to be cool by saying that she likes all the same things that I do.
He stomped on his fruit loops and thus became a cereal killer.
Just because the water is red doesn't mean you can't drink it.
The hand sanitizer was actually clear glue.
Jerry liked to look at paintings while eating garlic ice cream.
It was the scarcity that fueled his creativity.
It's never comforting to know that your fate depends on something as unpredictable as the popping of corn.
Separation anxiety is what happens when you can't find your phone.
Today is the day I'll finally know what brick tastes like.
You can't compare apples and oranges, but what about bananas and plantains?
Nancy was proud that she ran a tight shipwreck.
When confronted with a rotary dial phone the teenager was perplexed.
If you spin around three times, you'll start to feel melancholy.
The knives were out and she was sharpening hers.
Let me help you with your baggage.
Edith could decide if she should paint her teeth or brush her nails.
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.
Patricia loves the sound of nails strongly pressed against the chalkboard.
Mr. Montoya knows the way to the bakery even though he's never been there.
He didn't understand why the bird wanted to ride the bicycle.
He was willing to find the depths of the rabbit hole in order to be with her.
If I don’t like something, I’ll stay away from it.
When he had to picnic on the beach, he purposely put sand in other people’s food.
Warm beer on a cold day isn't my idea of fun.
She wanted a pet platypus but ended up getting a duck and a ferret instead.
She wasn't sure whether to be impressed or concerned that he folded underwear in neat little packages.
My secretary is the only person who truly understands my stamp-collecting obsession.
The old apple revels in its authority.
I ate a sock because people on the Internet told me to.
Peanut butter and jelly caused the elderly lady to think about her past.
He appeared to be confusingly perplexed.
All they could see was the blue water surrounding their sailboat.
He spiked his hair green to support his iguana.
He walked into the basement with the horror movie from the night before playing in his head.
Her fragrance of choice was fresh garlic.
I received a heavy fine but it failed to crush my spirit.
The thick foliage and intertwined vines made the hike nearly impossible.
With a single flip of the coin, his life changed forever.
The wake behind the boat told of the past while the open sea for told life in the unknown future.
I'm not a party animal, but I do like animal parties.
It was at that moment that he learned there are certain parts of the body that you should never Nair.
Improve your goldfish's physical fitness by getting him a bicycle.
The random sentence generator generated a random sentence about a random sentence.
He didn't heed the warning and it had turned out surprisingly well.
We're careful about orange ping pong balls because people might think they're fruit.
You have no right to call yourself creative until you look at a trowel and think that it would make a great lockpick.
For the 216th time, he said he would quit drinking soda after this last Coke.
When nobody is around, the trees gossip about the people who have walked under them.
Patricia found the meaning of life in a bowl of Cheerios.
The stranger officiates the meal.
The estate agent quickly marked out his territory on the dance floor.
The sudden rainstorm washed crocodiles into the ocean.
She advised him to come back at once.
The urgent care center was flooded with patients after the news of a new deadly virus was made public.
Lightning Paradise was the local hangout joint where the group usually ended up spending the night.
I really want to go to work, but I am too sick to drive.
Jenny made the announcement that her baby was an alien.
She was sad to hear that fireflies are facing extinction due to artificial light, habitat loss, and pesticides.
As the rental car rolled to a stop on the dark road, her fear increased by the moment.
She could hear him in the shower singing with a joy she hoped he'd retain after she delivered the news.
She saw the brake lights, but not in time.
The balloons floated away along with all my hopes and dreams.
The thunderous roar of the jet overhead confirmed her worst fears.
Andy loved to sleep on a bed of nails.
As time wore on, simple dog commands turned into full paragraphs explaining why the dog couldn’t do something.
Happiness can be found in the depths of chocolate pudding.
The group quickly understood that toxic waste was the most effective barrier to use against the zombies.
The father handed each child a roadmap at the beginning of the 2-day road trip and explained it was so they could find their way home.
Stop waiting for exceptional things to just happen.
His confidence would have bee admirable if it wasn't for his stupidity.
Iron pyrite is the most foolish of all minerals.
The near-death experience brought new ideas to light.
There's no reason a hula hoop can't also be a circus ring.
Barking dogs and screaming toddlers have the unique ability to turn friendly neighbors into cranky enemies.
No matter how beautiful the sunset, it saddened her knowing she was one day older.
Purple is the best city in the forest.
Hang on, my kittens are scratching at the bathtub and they'll upset by the lack of biscuits.
The shooter says goodbye to his love.
He figured a few sticks of dynamite were easier than a fishing pole to catch fish.
She only paints with bold colors; she does not like pastels.
The beauty of the sunset was obscured by the industrial cranes.
She used her own hair in the soup to give it more flavor.
All you need to do is pick up the pen and begin.
Siri became confused when we reused to follow her directions.
Nobody questions who built the pyramids in Mexico.
The sun had set and so had his dreams.
He uses onomatopoeia as a weapon of mental destruction.
As he waited for the shower to warm, he noticed that he could hear water change temperature.
She borrowed the book from him many years ago and hasn't yet returned it.
Garlic ice-cream was her favorite.
She always had an interesting perspective on why the world must be flat.
They throw cabbage that turns your brain into emotional baggage.
He was all business when he wore his clown suit.
It's always a good idea to seek shelter from the evil gaze of the sun.
Behind the window was a reflection that only instilled fear.
Cursive writing is the best way to build a race track.
Her life in the confines of the house became her new normal.
People who insist on picking their teeth with their elbows are so annoying!
Lucifer was surprised at the amount of life at Death Valley.
I am my aunt's sister's daughter.
He excelled at firing people nicely.
Martha came to the conclusion that shake weights are a great gift for any occasion.
Don't step on the broken glass.
He fumbled in the darkness looking for the light switch, but when he finally found it there was someone already there.
The tortoise jumped into the lake with dreams of becoming a sea turtle.
He was the type of guy who liked Christmas lights on his house in the middle of July.
Harrold felt confident that nobody would ever suspect his spy pigeon.
Their argument could be heard across the parking lot.
He had accidentally hacked into his company's server.
It didn't take long for Gary to detect the robbers were amateurs.
Everything was going so well until I was accosted by a purple giraffe.
She had that tint of craziness in her soul that made her believe she could actually make a difference.
He had reached the point where he was paranoid about being paranoid.
The shark-infested South Pine channel was the only way in or out.
To the surprise of everyone, the Rapture happened yesterday but it didn't quite go as expected.
The complicated school homework left the parents trying to help their kids quite confused.
On a scale from one to ten, what's your favorite flavor of random grammar?
Bill ran from the giraffe toward the dolphin.
He picked up trash in his spare time to dump in his neighbor's yard.
He had unknowingly taken up sleepwalking as a nighttime hobby.
The underground bunker was filled with chips and candy.
Nancy decided to make the porta-potty her home.
Traveling became almost extinct during the pandemic.
Be careful with that butter knife.
You should never take advice from someone who thinks red paint dries quicker than blue paint.
The elephant didn't want to talk about the person in the room.
Grape jelly was leaking out the hole in the roof.
He wondered why at 18 he was old enough to go to war, but not old enough to buy cigarettes.
Potato wedges probably are not best for relationships.
The beach was crowded with snow leopards.
He used to get confused between soldiers and shoulders, but as a military man, he now soldiers responsibility.
A suit of armor provides excellent sun protection on hot days.
She had the gift of being able to paint songs.
The paintbrush was angry at the color the artist chose to use.
Tuesdays are free if you bring a gnome costume.
Swim at your own risk was taken as a challenge for the group of Kansas City college students.
Please put on these earmuffs because I can't you hear.
She traveled because it cost the same as therapy and was a lot more enjoyable.
There are no heroes in a punk rock band.
All she wanted was the answer, but she had no idea how much she would hate it.
The ants enjoyed the barbecue more than the family.
She can live her life however she wants as long as she listens to what I have to say.
He had a wall full of masks so she could wear a different face every day.
It's never been my responsibility to glaze the donuts.
He realized there had been several deaths on this road, but his concern rose when he saw the exact number.
The fog was so dense even a laser decided it wasn't worth the effort.
When I was little I had a car door slammed shut on my hand and I still remember it quite vividly.
Seek success, but always be prepared for random cats.
He found the chocolate covered roaches quite tasty.
At that moment he wasn't listening to music, he was living an experience.
I cheated while playing the darts tournament by using a longbow.
Thirty years later, she still thought it was okay to put the toilet paper roll under rather than over.
It dawned on her that others could make her happier, but only she could make herself happy.
Courage and stupidity were all he had.
It was a really good Monday for being a Saturday.
She folded her handkerchief neatly.
I want to buy a onesie… but know it won’t suit me.
The door swung open to reveal pink giraffes and red elephants.
The family’s excitement over going to Disneyland was crazier than she anticipated.
Jason didn’t understand why his parents wouldn’t let him sell his little sister at the garage sale.
The bug was having an excellent day until he hit the windshield.
I'm worried by the fact that my daughter looks to the local carpet seller as a role model.
Standing on one's head at job interviews forms a lasting impression.
The tears of a clown make my lipstick run, but my shower cap is still intact.
She felt that chill that makes the hairs on the back of your neck when he walked into the room.
Most shark attacks occur about 10 feet from the beach since that's where the people are.
I'll have you know I've written over fifty novels
She learned that water bottles are no longer just to hold liquid, but they're also status symbols.
Carol drank the blood as if she were a vampire.
The ice-cream trucks bring back bad memories for all of us.
I caught my squirrel rustling through my gym bag.
Two seats were vacant.
She was too short to see over the fence.
She cried diamonds.
I currently have 4 windows open up… and I don’t know why.
The gruff old man sat in the back of the bait shop grumbling to himself as he scooped out a handful of worms.
The tart lemonade quenched her thirst, but not her longing.
Getting up at dawn is for the birds.
He went on a whiskey diet and immediately lost three days.
Car safety systems have come a long way, but he was out to prove they could be outsmarted.
In the end, he realized he could see sound and hear words.
He put heat on the wound to see what would grow.
Three years later, the coffin was still full of Jello.
Every manager should be able to recite at least ten nursery rhymes backward.
The crowd yells and screams for more memes.
Today I heard something new and unmemorable.
He took one look at what was under the table and noped the hell out of there.
They looked up at the sky and saw a million stars.
The two walked down the slot canyon oblivious to the sound of thunder in the distance.
Combines are no longer just for farms.
A glittering gem is not enough.
It's a skateboarding penguin with a sunhat!
It turns out you don't need all that stuff you insisted you did.
Douglas figured the best way to succeed was to do the opposite of what he'd been doing all his life.
Your girlfriend bought your favorite cookie crisp cereal but forgot to get milk.
As she walked along the street and looked in the gutter, she realized facemasks had become the new cigarette butts.
You're unsure whether or not to trust him, but very thankful that you wore a turtle neck.
Lets all be unique together until we realise we are all the same.
There was no telling what thoughts would come from the machine.
Everyone says they love nature until they realize how dangerous she can be.
I purchased a baby clown from the Russian terrorist black market.
It had been sixteen days since the zombies first attacked.
He learned the important lesson that a picnic at the beach on a windy day is a bad idea.
Poison ivy grew through the fence they said was impenetrable.
Dolores wouldn't have eaten the meal if she had known what it actually was.
This is a Japanese doll.
Toddlers feeding raccoons surprised even the seasoned park ranger.
In that instant, everything changed.
I want a giraffe, but I'm a turtle eating waffles.
There should have been a time and a place, but this wasn't it.
I honestly find her about as intimidating as a basket of kittens.
The secret code they created made no sense, even to them.
He created a pig burger out of beef.
She looked into the mirror and saw another person.
Tomatoes make great weapons when water balloons aren’t available.
She insisted that cleaning out your closet was the key to good driving.
Nobody loves a pig wearing lipstick.
I come from a tribe of head-hunters, so I will never need a shrink.
The swirled lollipop had issues with the pop rock candy.
They're playing the piano while flying in the plane.
Excitement replaced fear until the final moment.
You have every right to be angry, but that doesn't give you the right to be mean.
After fighting off the alligator, Brian still had to face the anaconda.
Flesh-colored yoga pants were far worse than even he feared.
We need to rent a room for our party.
He found a leprechaun in his walnut shell.
Sometimes, all you need to do is completely make an ass of yourself and laugh it off to realise that life isn’t so bad after all.
Little Red Riding Hood decided to wear orange today.
As you consider all the possible ways to improve yourself and the world, you notice John Travolta seems fairly unhappy.
There is no better feeling than staring at a wall with closed eyes.
The minute she landed she understood the reason this was a fly-over state.
I'm confused: when people ask me what's up, and I point, they groan.
He felt that dining on the bridge brought romance to his relationship with his cat.
I never knew what hardship looked like until it started raining bowling balls.
Acres of almond trees lined the interstate highway which complimented the crazy driving nuts.
The bees decided to have a mutiny against their queen.
He ran out of money, so he had to stop playing poker.
The child’s favorite Christmas gift was the large box her father’s lawnmower came in.
She did not cheat on the test, for it was not the right thing to do.
Now I need to ponder my existence and ask myself if I'm truly real
There's a message for you if you look up.
Homesickness became contagious in the young campers' cabin.
If you don't like toenails, you probably shouldn't look at your feet.
The Guinea fowl flies through the air with all the grace of a turtle.
The bullet pierced the window shattering it before missing Danny's head by mere millimeters.
Tomorrow will bring something new, so leave today as a memory.
Karen realized the only way she was getting into heaven was to cheat.
He found his art never progressed when he literally used his sweat and tears.
She couldn't understand why nobody else could see that the sky is full of cotton candy.
She finally understood that grief was her love with no place for it to go.
Joe discovered that traffic cones make excellent megaphones.
He decided to fake his disappearance to avoid jail.
Check back tomorrow; I will see if the book has arrived.
They improved dramatically once the lead singer left.
The toddler’s endless tantrum caused the entire plane anxiety.
There was no ice cream in the freezer, nor did they have money to go to the store.
She is never happy until she finds something to be unhappy about; then, she is overjoyed.
The father died during childbirth.
The sight of his goatee made me want to run and hide under my sister-in-law's bed.
She had a habit of taking showers in lemonade.
He is no James Bond; his name is Roger Moore.
Her hair was windswept as she rode in the black convertible.
I was offended by the suggestion that my baby brother was a jewel thief.
He loved eating his bananas in hot dog buns.
One small action would change her life, but whether it would be for better or for worse was yet to be determined.
He played the game as if his life depended on it and the truth was that it did.
Malls are great places to shop; I can find everything I need under one roof.
With the high wind warning
He was so preoccupied with whether or not he could that he failed to stop to consider if he should.
I've never seen a more beautiful brandy glass filled with wine.
She hadn't had her cup of coffee, and that made things all the worse.
Plans for this weekend include turning wine into water.
Please wait outside of the house.
It was obvious she was hot, sweaty, and tired.
The fish dreamed of escaping the fishbowl and into the toilet where he saw his friend go.
On each full moon
They say people remember important moments in their life well, yet no one even remembers their own birth.
The fox in the tophat whispered into the ear of the rabbit.
As he looked out the window, he saw a clown walk by.
It caught him off guard that space smelled of seared steak.
She lived on Monkey Jungle Road and that seemed to explain all of her strangeness.
The waitress was not amused when he ordered green eggs and ham.
Of course, she loves her pink bunny slippers.
Hit me with your pet shark!
The view from the lighthouse excited even the most seasoned traveler.
There's a reason that roses have thorns.
At that moment I was the most fearsome weasel in the entire swamp.
Nothing seemed out of place except the washing machine in the bar.
He wore the surgical mask in public not to keep from catching a virus, but to keep people away from him.
Someone I know recently combined Maple Syrup & buttered Popcorn thinking it would taste like caramel popcorn. It didn’t and they don’t recommend anyone else do it either.
Red is greener than purple, for sure.
Jim liked driving around town with his hazard lights on.
She had some amazing news to share but nobody to share it with.
It would have been a better night if the guys next to us weren't in the splash zone.
There are over 500 starfish in the bathroom drawer.
There are few things better in life than a slice of pie.
Dan ate the clouds like cotton candy.
Jeanne wished she has chosen the red button.
His ultimate dream fantasy consisted of being content and sleeping eight hours in a row.
The light in his life was actually a fire burning all around him.
While all her friends were positive that Mary had a sixth sense, she knew she actually had a seventh sense.
They called out her name time and again, but were met with nothing but silence.
The tattered work gloves speak of the many hours of hard labor he endured throughout his life.
Green should have smelled more tranquil, but somehow it just tasted rotten.
The llama couldn't resist trying the lemonade.
I may struggle with geography, but I'm sure I'm somewhere around here.
They finished building the road they knew no one would ever use.
If any cop asks you where you were, just say you were visiting Kansas.
If my calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than my browser history.
Watching the geriatric men’s softball team brought back memories of 3 yr olds playing t-ball.
A kangaroo is really just a rabbit on steroids.
She opened up her third bottle of wine of the night.
The fish listened intently to what the frogs had to say.
I only enjoy window shopping when the windows are transparent.
He turned in the research paper on Friday; otherwise, he would have not passed the class.
He kept telling himself that one day it would all somehow make sense.
I was very proud of my nickname throughout high school but today- I couldn’t be any different to what my nickname was.
The most exciting eureka moment I've had was when I realized that the instructions on food packets were just guidelines.
The fence was confused about whether it was supposed to keep things in or keep things out.
They were excited to see their first sloth.
Peter found road kill an excellent way to save money on dinner.
Writing a list of random sentences is harder than I initially thought it would be.
At last
He found rain fascinating yet unpleasant.
Kevin embraced his ability to be at the wrong place at the wrong time.
When she didn’t like a guy who was trying to pick her up, she started using sign language.
I was starting to worry that my pet turtle could tell what I was thinking.
Love is not like pizza.
Jason lived his life by the motto, "Anything worth doing is worth doing poorly.
My uncle's favorite pastime was building cars out of noodles.
Not all people who wander are lost.
When I cook spaghetti, I like to boil it a few minutes past al dente so the noodles are super slippery.
The spa attendant applied the deep cleaning mask to the gentleman’s back.
The golden retriever loved the fireworks each Fourth of July.
He invested some skill points in Charisma and Strength.
Boulders lined the side of the road foretelling what could come next.
There can never be too many cherries on an ice cream sundae.
Nobody has encountered an explosive daisy and lived to tell the tale.
Sometimes you have to just give up and win by cheating.
He embraced his new life as an eggplant.
Despite what your teacher may have told you, there is a wrong way to wield a lasso.
That is an appealing treasure map that I can't read.
They did nothing as the raccoon attacked the lady’s bag of food.
I've always wanted to go to Tajikistan, but my cat would miss me.
That was how he came to win $1 million.
The skeleton had skeletons of his own in the closet.
Going from child, to childish, to childlike is only a matter of time.
The newly planted trees were held up by wooden frames in hopes they could survive the next storm.
Greetings from the galaxy MACS0647-JD, or what we call home.
Imagine his surprise when he discovered that the safe was full of pudding.
The secret ingredient to his wonderful life was crime.
He enjoys practicing his ballet in the bathroom.
Everyone was busy, so I went to the movie alone.
Her daily goal was to improve on yesterday.
Giving directions that the mountains are to the west only works when you can see them.
There was coal in his stocking and he was thrilled.
The tumbleweed refused to tumble but was more than willing to prance.
Don't put peanut butter on the dog's nose.
The stench from the feedlot permeated the car despite having the air conditioning on recycled air.
The manager of the fruit stand always sat and only sold vegetables.
Today I bought a raincoat and wore it on a sunny day.
Joe made the sugar cookies; Susan decorated them.
The truth is that you pay for your lifestyle in hours.
She found it strange that people use their cellphones to actually talk to one another.
It's much more difficult to play tennis with a bowling ball than it is to bowl with a tennis ball.
I was fishing for compliments and accidentally caught a trout.
There were white out conditions in the town; subsequently, the roads were impassable.
The elderly neighborhood became enraged over the coyotes who had been blamed for the poodle’s disappearance.
I used to live in my neighbor's fishpond, but the aesthetic wasn't to my taste.
Sometimes it is better to just walk away from things and go back to them later when you’re in a better frame of mind.
I always dreamed about being stranded on a desert island until it actually happened.
This is the last random sentence I will be writing and I am going to stop mid-sent
It took me too long to realize that the ceiling hadn't been painted to look like the sky.
Before he moved to the inner city, he had always believed that security complexes were psychological.
He told us a very exciting adventure story.
I love bacon, beer, birds, and baboons.
A dead duck doesn't fly backward.
She says she has the ability to hear the soundtrack of your life.
Mary plays the piano.
It's important to remember to be aware of rampaging grizzly bears.
Henry couldn't decide if he was an auto mechanic or a priest.
She was only made the society president because she can whistle with her toes.
It was difficult for Mary to admit that most of her workout consisted of exercising poor judgment.
The sunblock was handed to the girl before practice, but the burned skin was proof she did not apply it.
When motorists sped in and out of traffic, all she could think of was those in need of a transplant.
Written warnings in instruction manuals are worthless since rabbits can't read.
There aren't enough towels in the world to stop the sewage flowing from his mouth.
Just go ahead and press that button.
100 years old is such a young age if you happen to be a bristlecone pine.
I used to practice weaving with spaghetti three hours a day but stopped because I didn't want to die alone.
He would only survive if he kept the fire going and he could hear thunder in the distance.
He was the only member of the club who didn't like plum pudding.
The door slammed on the watermelon.
Situps are a terrible way to end your day.
She had convinced her kids that any mushroom found on the ground would kill them if they touched it.
I'd rather be a bird than a fish.
Chocolate covered crickets were his favorite snack.
The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
She did her best to help him.
They got there early, and they got really good seats.
The glacier came alive as the climbers hiked closer.
Charles ate the french fries knowing they would be his last meal.
Gwen had her best sleep ever on her new bed of nails.
The blinking lights of the antenna tower came into focus just as I heard a loud snap.
A song can make or ruin a person’s day if they let it get to them.
People generally approve of dogs eating cat food but not cats eating dog food.
He was disappointed when he found the beach to be so sandy and the sun so sunny.
He watched the dancing piglets with panda bear tummies in the swimming pool.
It took him a while to realize that everything he decided not to change, he was actually choosing.
I hear that Nancy is very pretty.
The hummingbird's wings blurred while it eagerly sipped the sugar water from the feeder.
They say that dogs are man's best friend, but this cat was setting out to sabotage that theory.
His thought process was on so many levels that he gave himself a phobia of heights.
People keep telling me "orange" but I still prefer "pink".
You realize you're not alone as you sit in your bedroom massaging your calves after a long day of playing tug-of-war with Grandpa Joe in the hospital.
I want more detailed information.
Sometimes I stare at a door or a wall and I wonder what is this reality, why am I alive, and what is this all about?
The green tea and avocado smoothie turned out exactly as would be expected.
Flash photography is best used in full sunlight.
The clock within this blog and the clock on my laptop are 1 hour different from each other.
He poured rocks in the dungeon of his mind.
I would be delighted if the sea were full of cucumber juice.
The pet shop stocks everything you need to keep your anaconda happy.
Strawberries must be the one food that doesn't go well with this brand of paint.
I'd always thought lightning was something only I could see.
Facing his greatest fear, he ate his first marshmallow.
That must be the tenth time I've been arrested for selling deep-fried cigars.
For oil spots on the floor, nothing beats parking a motorbike in the lounge.
The heat
The old rusted farm equipment surrounded the house predicting its demise.
I thought red would have felt warmer in summer but I didn't think about the equator.
He wondered if she would appreciate his toenail collection.
It was the best sandcastle he had ever seen.
His get rich quick scheme was to grow a cactus farm.
Nudist colonies shun fig-leaf couture.
The Great Dane looked more like a horse than a dog.
He strives to keep the best lawn in the neighborhood.
His son quipped that power bars were nothing more than adult candy bars.
The beauty of the African sunset disguised the danger lurking nearby.
It must be five o'clock somewhere.
Truth in advertising and dinosaurs with skateboards have much in common.
It was her first experience training a rainbow unicorn.
The team members were hard to tell apart since they all wore their hair in a ponytail.
I think I will buy the red car, or I will lease the blue one.
I'm a great listener, really good with empathy vs sympathy and all that, but I hate people.
The murder hornet was disappointed by the preconceived ideas people had of him.
My biggest joy is roasting almonds while stalking prey.
The external scars tell only part of the story.
He ended up burning his fingers poking someone else's fire.
I trust everything that's written in purple ink.
As the years pass by, we all know owners look more and more like their dogs.
A good example of a useful vegetable is medicinal rhubarb.
For some unfathomable reason, the response team didn't consider a lack of milk for my cereal as a proper emergency.
He had concluded that pigs must be able to fly in Hog Heaven.
The best part of marriage is animal crackers with peanut butter.
He was an introvert that extroverts seemed to love.
He swore he just saw his sushi move.
We should play with legos at camp.
He learned the hardest lesson of his life and had the scars, both physical and mental, to prove it.
Iguanas were falling out of the trees.
Italy is my favorite country; in fact, I plan to spend two weeks there next year.
The book is in front of the table.
In hopes of finding out the truth, he entered the one-room library.
The memory we used to share is no longer coherent.
When he encountered maize for the first time, he thought it incredibly corny.
Greetings from the real universe.
Blue sounded too cold at the time and yet it seemed to work for gin.
They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
He was surprised that his immense laziness was inspirational to others.
Art doesn't have to be intentional.
Mothers spend months of their lives waiting on their children.
I like to leave work after my eight-hour tea-break.
He always wore his sunglasses at night.
Don't piss in my garden and tell me you're trying to help my plants grow.
The trick to getting kids to eat anything is to put catchup on it.
his seven-layer cake only had six layers.
Weather is not trivial - it's especially important when you're standing in it.
He barked orders at his daughters but they just stared back with amusement.
She was disgusted he couldn’t tell the difference between lemonade and limeade.
Sarah ran from the serial killer holding a jug of milk.
He was sitting in a trash can with high street class.
The clouds formed beautiful animals in the sky that eventually created a tornado to wreak havoc.
Gary didn't understand why Doug went upstairs to get one dollar bills when he invited him to go cow tipping.
Even though he thought the world was flat he didn’t see the irony of wanting to travel around the world.
Joyce enjoyed eating pancakes with ketchup.
Whenever he saw a red flag warning at the beach he grabbed his surfboard.
The dead trees waited to be ignited by the smallest spark and seek their revenge.
Buried deep in the snow, he hoped his batteries were fresh in his avalanche beacon.
While on the first date he accidentally hit his head on the beam.
You'll see the rainbow bridge after it rains cats and dogs.
As the asteroid hurtled toward earth, Becky was upset her dentist appointment had been canceled.
Wisdom is easily acquired when hiding under the bed with a saucepan on your head.
She looked at the masterpiece hanging in the museum but all she could think is that her five-year-old could do better.
Waffles are always better without fire ants and fleas.
The blue parrot drove by the hitchhiking mongoose.
David subscribes to the "stuff your tent into the bag" strategy over nicely folding it.
The busker hoped that the people passing by would throw money, but they threw tomatoes instead, so he exchanged his hat for a juicer.
He is good at eating pickles and telling women about his emotional problems.
Abstraction is often one floor above you.
Pantyhose and heels are an interesting choice of attire for the beach.
It's not possible to convince a monkey to give you a banana by promising it infinite bananas when they die.
The opportunity of a lifetime passed before him as he tried to decide between a cone or a cup.
When money was tight, he'd get his lunch money from the local wishing well.
Having no hair made him look even hairier.
Eating eggs on Thursday for choir practice was recommended.
Although it wasn't a pot of gold, Nancy was still enthralled at what she found at the end of the rainbow.
The Japanese yen for commerce is still well-known.
I’m a living furnace.
Karen believed all traffic laws should be obeyed by all except herself.
Choosing to do nothing is still a choice, after all.
I became paranoid that the school of jellyfish was spying on me.
The worst thing about being at the top of the career ladder is that there's a long way to fall.
The overpass went under the highway and into a secret world.
Everyone was curious about the large white blimp that appeared overnight.
He hated that he loved what she hated about hate.
The sky is clear; the stars are twinkling.
She found his complete dullness interesting.
As he dangled from the rope deep inside the crevasse
The gloves protect my feet from excess work.
She was too busy always talking about what she wanted to do to actually do any of it.
He waited for the stop sign to turn to a go sign.
You're good at English when you know the difference between a man eating chicken and a man-eating chicken.
I made myself a peanut butter sandwich as I didn't want to subsist on veggie crackers.
She wrote him a long letter, but he didn't read it.
I am counting my calories, yet I really want dessert.
Her scream silenced the rowdy teenagers.
We have never been to Asia, nor have we visited Africa.
Various sea birds are elegant, but nothing is as elegant as a gliding pelican.
The water flowing down the river didn’t look that powerful from the car
He set out for a short walk, but now all he could see were mangroves and water were for miles.
He liked to play with words in the bathtub.
Rock music approaches at high velocity.
Today I dressed my unicorn in preparation for the race.
The teenage boy was accused of breaking his arm simply to get out of the test.
David proudly graduated from high school top of his class at age 97.
The snow-covered path was no help in finding his way out of the back-country.
Instead of a bachelorette party
I’m working on a sweet potato farm.
The changing of down comforters to cotton bedspreads always meant the squirrels had returned.
The fifty mannequin heads floating in the pool kind of freaked them out.
There's an art to getting your way, and spitting olive pits across the table isn't it.
I just wanted to tell you I could see the love you have for your child by the way you look at her.
It's difficult to understand the lengths he'd go to remain short.
It was getting dark, and we weren’t there yet.
Sixty-Four comes asking for bread.
I had a friend in high school named Rick Shaw, but he was fairly useless as a mode of transport.
Shakespeare was a famous 17th-century diesel mechanic.
I am never at home on Sundays.
He had a hidden stash underneath the floorboards in the back room of the house.
Had he known what was going to happen, he would have never stepped into the shower.
It was a slippery slope and he was willing to slide all the way to the deepest depths.
She moved forward only because she trusted that the ending she now was going through must be followed by a new beginning.
The doll spun around in circles in hopes of coming alive.
I would have gotten the promotion, but my attendance wasn’t good enough.
The efficiency we have at removing trash has made creating trash more acceptable.
The body piercing didn't go exactly as he expected.
Pair your designer cowboy hat with scuba gear for a memorable occasion.
You bite up because of your lower jaw.
We have a lot of rain in June.
25 years later, she still regretted that specific moment.
The white water rafting trip was suddenly halted by the unexpected brick wall.
I know many children ask for a pony, but I wanted a bicycle with rockets strapped to it.
Baby wipes are made of chocolate stardust.
There's probably enough glass in my cupboard to build an undersea aquarium.
Mom didn’t understand why no one else wanted a hot tub full of jello.
Best friends are like old tomatoes and shoelaces.
He wondered if it could be called a beach if there was no sand.
The reservoir water level continued to lower while we enjoyed our long shower.
As he entered the church he could hear the soft voice of someone whispering into a cell phone.
So long and thanks for the fish.
Despite multiple complications and her near-death experience
She always speaks to him in a loud voice.
Never underestimate the willingness of the greedy to throw you under the bus.
The bread dough reminded her of Santa Clause’s belly.
The lake is a long way from here.
He went back to the video to see what had been recorded and was shocked at what he saw.
The tour bus was packed with teenage girls heading toward their next adventure.
Shingle color was not something the couple had ever talked about.
The rain pelted the windshield as the darkness engulfed us.
If you like tuna and tomato sauce, try combining the two, it’s really not as bad as it sounds.
It isn't difficult to do a handstand if you just stand on your hands.
It took him a month to finish the meal.
He wasn't bitter that she had moved on but from the radish.
Too many prisons have become early coffins.
Pink horses galloped across the sea.
He's in a boy band which doesn't make much sense for a snake.
The sign said there was road work ahead so he decided to speed up.
Honestly, I didn't care much for the first season, so I didn't bother with the second.
I love eating toasted cheese and tuna sandwiches.
The best key lime pie is still up for debate.
Pat ordered a ghost pepper pie.
You've been eyeing me all day and waiting for your move like a lion stalking a gazelle in a savannah.
I can't believe this is the eighth time I'm smashing open my piggy bank on the same day!
Everyone pretends to like wheat until you mention barley.
He didn’t want to go to the dentist, yet he went anyway.
The bird had a belief that it was really a groundhog.
He dreamed of eating green apples with worms.
Normal activities took extraordinary amounts of concentration at the high altitude.
Please tell me you don't work in a morgue.
He said he was not there yesterday; however, many people saw him there.
Cats are good pets, for they are clean and are not noisy.
The virus had powers none of us knew existed.
I covered my friend in baby oil.
He stepped gingerly onto the bridge knowing that enchantment awaited on the other side.
This made him feel like an old-style rootbeer float smells.
He had decided to accept his fate of accepting his fate.
Always bring cinnamon buns on a deep-sea diving expedition.
I met an interesting turtle while the song on the radio blasted away.
The Tsunami wave crashed against the raised houses and broke the pilings as if they were toothpicks.
When he asked her favorite number, she answered without hesitation that it was diamonds.
He was sure the Devil created red sparkly glitter.
If eating three-egg omelets causes weight-gain, budgie eggs are a good substitute.
She did a happy dance because all of the socks from the dryer matched.
The lyrics of the song sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard.
The light that burns twice as bright burns half as long.
After coating myself in vegetable oil I found my success rate skyrocketed.
The anaconda was the greatest criminal mastermind in this part of the neighborhood.
He knew it was going to be a bad day when he saw mountain lions roaming the streets.
We will not allow you to bring your pet armadillo along.
Today arrived with a crash of my car through the garage door.
I often see the time 11:11 or 12:34 on clocks.
It didn't make sense unless you had the power to eat colors.
He dreamed of leaving his law firm to open a portable dog wash.
My dentist tells me that chewing bricks is very bad for your teeth.
There have been days when I wished to be separated from my body, but today wasn’t one of those days.
The delicious aroma from the kitchen was ruined by cigarette smoke.
The rusty nail stood erect, angled at a 45-degree angle, just waiting for the perfect barefoot to come along.
The efficiency with which he paired the socks in the drawer was quite admirable.
The hawk didn’t understand why the ground squirrels didn’t want to be his friend.
Twin 4-month-olds slept in the shade of the palm tree while the mother tanned in the sun.
It's not often you find a soggy banana on the street.
We have young kids who often walk into our room at night for various reasons including clowns in the closet.
The river stole the gods.
The chic gangster liked to start the day with a pink scarf.
I've traveled all around Africa and still haven't found the gnu who stole my scarf.
The fact that there's a stairway to heaven and a highway to hell explains life well.
His mind was blown that there was nothing in space except space itself.
She was the type of girl who wanted to live in a pink house.
The furnace repairman indicated the heating system was acting as an air conditioner.
If you really strain your ears, you can just about hear the sound of no one giving a damn.
He found the end of the rainbow and was surprised at what he found there.
She wanted to be rescued, but only if it was Tuesday and raining.
He shaved the peach to prove a point.
She wondered what his eyes were saying beneath his mirrored sunglasses.
Erin accidentally created a new universe.
Doris enjoyed tapping her nails on the table to annoy everyone.
Today we gathered moss for my uncle's wedding.
Random words in front of other random words create a random sentence.
There were three sphered rocks congregating in a cubed room.
Nothing is as cautiously cuddly as a pet porcupine.
The miniature pet elephant became the envy of the neighborhood.
It isn't true that my mattress is made of cotton candy.
She works two jobs to make ends meet; at least, that was her reason for not having time to join us.
He quietly entered the museum as the super bowl started.
He decided water-skiing on a frozen lake wasn’t a good idea.
They ran around the corner to find that they had traveled back in time.
The most exciting eureka moment I've had was when I realized that the instructions on food packets were just guidelines.
The stranger officiates the meal.
The fish dreamed of escaping the fishbowl and into the toilet where he saw his friend go.
Traveling became almost extinct during the pandemic.
The green tea and avocado smoothie turned out exactly as would be expected.
The water flowing down the river didn’t look that powerful from the car
She wanted a pet platypus but ended up getting a duck and a ferret instead.
Karen realized the only way she was getting into heaven was to cheat.
David subscribes to the "stuff your tent into the bag" strategy over nicely folding it.
This made him feel like an old-style rootbeer float smells.
He never understood why what, when, and where left out who.
Everyone says they love nature until they realize how dangerous she can be.
Toddlers feeding raccoons surprised even the seasoned park ranger.
The pigs were insulted that they were named hamburgers.
The stench from the feedlot permeated the car despite having the air conditioning on recycled air.
Not all people who wander are lost.
I want more detailed information.
Flash photography is best used in full sunlight.
He wondered if it could be called a beach if there was no sand.
The view from the lighthouse excited even the most seasoned traveler.
She felt that chill that makes the hairs on the back of your neck when he walked into the room.
She borrowed the book from him many years ago and hasn't yet returned it.
I want to buy a onesie… but know it won’t suit me.
He was sitting in a trash can with high street class.
I liked their first two albums but changed my mind after that charity gig.
They did nothing as the raccoon attacked the lady’s bag of food.
Everyone was busy, so I went to the movie alone.
He liked to play with words in the bathtub.
I caught my squirrel rustling through my gym bag.
The secret ingredient to his wonderful life was crime.
There was no ice cream in the freezer, nor did they have money to go to the store.
Mothers spend months of their lives waiting on their children.
Peanuts don't grow on trees, but cashews do.
She had convinced her kids that any mushroom found on the ground would kill them if they touched it.
Little Red Riding Hood decided to wear orange today.
We have young kids who often walk into our room at night for various reasons including clowns in the closet.
We have never been to Asia, nor have we visited Africa.
Plans for this weekend include turning wine into water.
Buried deep in the snow, he hoped his batteries were fresh in his avalanche beacon.
He didn’t want to go to the dentist, yet he went anyway.
The llama couldn't resist trying the lemonade.
The bug was having an excellent day until he hit the windshield.
She was only made the society president because she can whistle with her toes.
He had unknowingly taken up sleepwalking as a nighttime hobby.
As he waited for the shower to warm, he noticed that he could hear water change temperature.
Jerry liked to look at paintings while eating garlic ice cream.
It had been sixteen days since the zombies first attacked.
Seek success, but always be prepared for random cats.
She works two jobs to make ends meet; at least, that was her reason for not having time to join us.
The shooter says goodbye to his love.
She had a difficult time owning up to her own crazy self.
She only paints with bold colors; she does not like pastels.
It would have been a better night if the guys next to us weren't in the splash zone.
The best part of marriage is animal crackers with peanut butter.
Tomorrow will bring something new, so leave today as a memory.
She saw no irony asking me to change but wanting me to accept her for who she is.
A purple pig and a green donkey flew a kite in the middle of the night and ended up sunburnt.
Gwen had her best sleep ever on her new bed of nails.
If I don’t like something, I’ll stay away from it.
She was too busy always talking about what she wanted to do to actually do any of it.
Nothing is as cautiously cuddly as a pet porcupine.
The beauty of the African sunset disguised the danger lurking nearby.
His confidence would have bee admirable if it wasn't for his stupidity.
Sometimes, all you need to do is completely make an ass of yourself and laugh it off to realise that life isn’t so bad after all.
The paintbrush was angry at the color the artist chose to use.
The virus had powers none of us knew existed.
She couldn't decide of the glass was half empty or half full so she drank it.
The newly planted trees were held up by wooden frames in hopes they could survive the next storm.
The complicated school homework left the parents trying to help their kids quite confused.
Shakespeare was a famous 17th-century diesel mechanic.
She was the type of girl who wanted to live in a pink house.
Bill ran from the giraffe toward the dolphin.
Gary didn't understand why Doug went upstairs to get one dollar bills when he invited him to go cow tipping.
You'll see the rainbow bridge after it rains cats and dogs.
Purple is the best city in the forest.
I just wanted to tell you I could see the love you have for your child by the way you look at her.
He embraced his new life as an eggplant.
Patricia found the meaning of life in a bowl of Cheerios.
In that instant, everything changed.
She used her own hair in the soup to give it more flavor.
She did her best to help him.
She finally understood that grief was her love with no place for it to go.
He didn't understand why the bird wanted to ride the bicycle.
Trash covered the landscape like sprinkles do a birthday cake.
I made myself a peanut butter sandwich as I didn't want to subsist on veggie crackers.
Edith could decide if she should paint her teeth or brush her nails.
There was coal in his stocking and he was thrilled.
He took one look at what was under the table and noped the hell out of there.
The sudden rainstorm washed crocodiles into the ocean.
Mary plays the piano.
The book is in front of the table.
It's a skateboarding penguin with a sunhat!
There's probably enough glass in my cupboard to build an undersea aquarium.
His ultimate dream fantasy consisted of being content and sleeping eight hours in a row.
Pair your designer cowboy hat with scuba gear for a memorable occasion.
Baby wipes are made of chocolate stardust.
Everyone was curious about the large white blimp that appeared overnight.
Potato wedges probably are not best for relationships.
I cheated while playing the darts tournament by using a longbow.
The urgent care center was flooded with patients after the news of a new deadly virus was made public.
The thick foliage and intertwined vines made the hike nearly impossible.
If you don't like toenails, you probably shouldn't look at your feet.
She was disgusted he couldn’t tell the difference between lemonade and limeade.
She wore green lipstick like a fashion icon.
It was the best sandcastle he had ever seen.
I think I will buy the red car, or I will lease the blue one.
The random sentence generator generated a random sentence about a random sentence.
When motorists sped in and out of traffic, all she could think of was those in need of a transplant.
At that moment he wasn't listening to music, he was living an experience.
It's important to remember to be aware of rampaging grizzly bears.
It doesn't sound like that will ever be on my travel list.
The elephant didn't want to talk about the person in the room.
Nudist colonies shun fig-leaf couture.
I had a friend in high school named Rick Shaw, but he was fairly useless as a mode of transport.
He kept telling himself that one day it would all somehow make sense.
He turned in the research paper on Friday; otherwise, he would have not passed the class.
The swirled lollipop had issues with the pop rock candy.
I currently have 4 windows open up… and I don’t know why.
I've always wanted to go to Tajikistan, but my cat would miss me.
On each full moon
The murder hornet was disappointed by the preconceived ideas people had of him.
Just because the water is red doesn't mean you can't drink it.
They say people remember important moments in their life well, yet no one even remembers their own birth.
He knew it was going to be a bad day when he saw mountain lions roaming the streets.
It was her first experience training a rainbow unicorn.
Nobody questions who built the pyramids in Mexico.
8% of 25 is the same as 25% of 8 and one of them is much easier to do in your head.
He barked orders at his daughters but they just stared back with amusement.
He was all business when he wore his clown suit.
He spiked his hair green to support his iguana.
He didn't heed the warning and it had turned out surprisingly well.
Pantyhose and heels are an interesting choice of attire for the beach.
While all her friends were positive that Mary had a sixth sense, she knew she actually had a seventh sense.
The anaconda was the greatest criminal mastermind in this part of the neighborhood.
He appeared to be confusingly perplexed.
I've never seen a more beautiful brandy glass filled with wine.
It's always a good idea to seek shelter from the evil gaze of the sun.
It isn't true that my mattress is made of cotton candy.
The opportunity of a lifetime passed before him as he tried to decide between a cone or a cup.
The waitress was not amused when he ordered green eggs and ham.
He uses onomatopoeia as a weapon of mental destruction.
You realize you're not alone as you sit in your bedroom massaging your calves after a long day of playing tug-of-war with Grandpa Joe in the hospital.
Jeanne wished she has chosen the red button.
His thought process was on so many levels that he gave himself a phobia of heights.
He learned the important lesson that a picnic at the beach on a windy day is a bad idea.
It's not possible to convince a monkey to give you a banana by promising it infinite bananas when they die.
I like to leave work after my eight-hour tea-break.
The river stole the gods.
It caught him off guard that space smelled of seared steak.
He always wore his sunglasses at night.
You're unsure whether or not to trust him, but very thankful that you wore a turtle neck.
He ran out of money, so he had to stop playing poker.
There are few things better in life than a slice of pie.
Martha came to the conclusion that shake weights are a great gift for any occasion.
There were three sphered rocks congregating in a cubed room.
It's never been my responsibility to glaze the donuts.
The tour bus was packed with teenage girls heading toward their next adventure.
There should have been a time and a place, but this wasn't it.
The tears of a clown make my lipstick run, but my shower cap is still intact.
There have been days when I wished to be separated from my body, but today wasn’t one of those days.
A quiet house is nice until you are ordered to stay in it for months.
All you need to do is pick up the pen and begin.
That was how he came to win $1 million.
The blue parrot drove by the hitchhiking mongoose.
The bees decided to have a mutiny against their queen.
The fish listened intently to what the frogs had to say.
I was starting to worry that my pet turtle could tell what I was thinking.
In the end, he realized he could see sound and hear words.
Too many prisons have become early coffins.
Erin accidentally created a new universe.
He learned the hardest lesson of his life and had the scars, both physical and mental, to prove it.
It was getting dark, and we weren’t there yet.
The external scars tell only part of the story.
The white water rafting trip was suddenly halted by the unexpected brick wall.
I come from a tribe of head-hunters, so I will never need a shrink.
She did a happy dance because all of the socks from the dryer matched.
As the rental car rolled to a stop on the dark road, her fear increased by the moment.
She always had an interesting perspective on why the world must be flat.
I don’t respect anybody who can’t tell the difference between Pepsi and Coke.
It's never comforting to know that your fate depends on something as unpredictable as the popping of corn.
I am my aunt's sister's daughter.
The blinking lights of the antenna tower came into focus just as I heard a loud snap.
Tomatoes make great weapons when water balloons aren’t available.
Imagine his surprise when he discovered that the safe was full of pudding.
He put heat on the wound to see what would grow.
As time wore on, simple dog commands turned into full paragraphs explaining why the dog couldn’t do something.
We will not allow you to bring your pet armadillo along.
It was difficult for Mary to admit that most of her workout consisted of exercising poor judgment.
Iguanas were falling out of the trees.
It turns out you don't need all that stuff you insisted you did.
Three generations with six decades of life experience.
He dreamed of leaving his law firm to open a portable dog wash.
He wondered if she would appreciate his toenail collection.
My secretary is the only person who truly understands my stamp-collecting obsession.
Twin 4-month-olds slept in the shade of the palm tree while the mother tanned in the sun.
Sometimes I stare at a door or a wall and I wonder what is this reality, why am I alive, and what is this all about?
I'd rather be a bird than a fish.
As the asteroid hurtled toward earth, Becky was upset her dentist appointment had been canceled.
Watching the geriatric men’s softball team brought back memories of 3 yr olds playing t-ball.
Please wait outside of the house.
The team members were hard to tell apart since they all wore their hair in a ponytail.
Joe discovered that traffic cones make excellent megaphones.
There's a growing trend among teenagers of using frisbees as go-cart wheels.
He would only survive if he kept the fire going and he could hear thunder in the distance.
The lake is a long way from here.
No matter how beautiful the sunset, it saddened her knowing she was one day older.
I was fishing for compliments and accidentally caught a trout.
The bullet pierced the window shattering it before missing Danny's head by mere millimeters.
Jenny made the announcement that her baby was an alien.
The child’s favorite Christmas gift was the large box her father’s lawnmower came in.
Weather is not trivial - it's especially important when you're standing in it.
The bird had a belief that it was really a groundhog.
He is good at eating pickles and telling women about his emotional problems.
She is never happy until she finds something to be unhappy about; then, she is overjoyed.
The best key lime pie is still up for debate.
It was the scarcity that fueled his creativity.
I purchased a baby clown from the Russian terrorist black market.
Art doesn't have to be intentional.
I thought red would have felt warmer in summer but I didn't think about the equator.
The teens wondered what was kept in the red shed on the far edge of the school grounds.
Whenever he saw a red flag warning at the beach he grabbed his surfboard.
I often see the time 11:11 or 12:34 on clocks.
I’m a living furnace.
The hummingbird's wings blurred while it eagerly sipped the sugar water from the feeder.
I want a giraffe, but I'm a turtle eating waffles.
As he looked out the window, he saw a clown walk by.
When money was tight, he'd get his lunch money from the local wishing well.
The fifty mannequin heads floating in the pool kind of freaked them out.
He created a pig burger out of beef.
Don't piss in my garden and tell me you're trying to help my plants grow.
All they could see was the blue water surrounding their sailboat.
The fog was so dense even a laser decided it wasn't worth the effort.
He decided to live his life by the big beats manifesto.
Jim liked driving around town with his hazard lights on.
He decided water-skiing on a frozen lake wasn’t a good idea.
Sixty-Four comes asking for bread.
He felt that dining on the bridge brought romance to his relationship with his cat.
I covered my friend in baby oil.
She was too short to see over the fence.
Pink horses galloped across the sea.
The Great Dane looked more like a horse than a dog.
Going from child, to childish, to childlike is only a matter of time.
I'm not a party animal, but I do like animal parties.
He used to get confused between soldiers and shoulders, but as a military man, he now soldiers responsibility.
Today I bought a raincoat and wore it on a sunny day.
The shark-infested South Pine channel was the only way in or out.
Waffles are always better without fire ants and fleas.
For the 216th time, he said he would quit drinking soda after this last Coke.
Lightning Paradise was the local hangout joint where the group usually ended up spending the night.
The wake behind the boat told of the past while the open sea for told life in the unknown future.
The body piercing didn't go exactly as he expected.
For oil spots on the floor, nothing beats parking a motorbike in the lounge.
Stop waiting for exceptional things to just happen.
The underground bunker was filled with chips and candy.
Blue sounded too cold at the time and yet it seemed to work for gin.
There's a reason that roses have thorns.
He shaved the peach to prove a point.
Siri became confused when we reused to follow her directions.
She did not cheat on the test, for it was not the right thing to do.
The gruff old man sat in the back of the bait shop grumbling to himself as he scooped out a handful of worms.
Lets all be unique together until we realise we are all the same.
People keep telling me "orange" but I still prefer "pink".
I can't believe this is the eighth time I'm smashing open my piggy bank on the same day!
Just go ahead and press that button.
Carol drank the blood as if she were a vampire.
He decided to fake his disappearance to avoid jail.
Standing on one's head at job interviews forms a lasting impression.
They ran around the corner to find that they had traveled back in time.
Last Friday I saw a spotted striped blue worm shake hands with a legless lizard.
Sarah ran from the serial killer holding a jug of milk.
The crowd yells and screams for more memes.
Eating eggs on Thursday for choir practice was recommended.
She looked into the mirror and saw another person.
The Tsunami wave crashed against the raised houses and broke the pilings as if they were toothpicks.
The elderly neighborhood became enraged over the coyotes who had been blamed for the poodle’s disappearance.
There is no better feeling than staring at a wall with closed eyes.
I've traveled all around Africa and still haven't found the gnu who stole my scarf.
She cried diamonds.
You've been eyeing me all day and waiting for your move like a lion stalking a gazelle in a savannah.
She had that tint of craziness in her soul that made her believe she could actually make a difference.
Wisdom is easily acquired when hiding under the bed with a saucepan on your head.
Giving directions that the mountains are to the west only works when you can see them.
More RVs were seen in the storage lot than at the campground.
It's much more difficult to play tennis with a bowling ball than it is to bowl with a tennis ball.
The old rusted farm equipment surrounded the house predicting its demise.
She had some amazing news to share but nobody to share it with.
I am never at home on Sundays.
Thirty years later, she still thought it was okay to put the toilet paper roll under rather than over.
Most shark attacks occur about 10 feet from the beach since that's where the people are.
Shingle color was not something the couple had ever talked about.
Jason lived his life by the motto, "Anything worth doing is worth doing poorly.
Every manager should be able to recite at least ten nursery rhymes backward.
It took him a month to finish the meal.
The furnace repairman indicated the heating system was acting as an air conditioner.
That must be the tenth time I've been arrested for selling deep-fried cigars.
She wrote him a long letter, but he didn't read it.
Abstraction is often one floor above you.
There aren't enough towels in the world to stop the sewage flowing from his mouth.
To the surprise of everyone, the Rapture happened yesterday but it didn't quite go as expected.
She wanted to be rescued, but only if it was Tuesday and raining.
The snow-covered path was no help in finding his way out of the back-country.
The lyrics of the song sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard.
I love bacon, beer, birds, and baboons.
When she didn’t like a guy who was trying to pick her up, she started using sign language.
It's difficult to understand the lengths he'd go to remain short.
So long and thanks for the fish.
He wondered why at 18 he was old enough to go to war, but not old enough to buy cigarettes.
The clock within this blog and the clock on my laptop are 1 hour different from each other.
Flesh-colored yoga pants were far worse than even he feared.
The reservoir water level continued to lower while we enjoyed our long shower.
After fighting off the alligator, Brian still had to face the anaconda.
I'll have you know I've written over fifty novels
The sight of his goatee made me want to run and hide under my sister-in-law's bed.
She couldn't understand why nobody else could see that the sky is full of cotton candy.
Rock music approaches at high velocity.
The tree fell unexpectedly short.
Instead of a bachelorette party
Mr. Montoya knows the way to the bakery even though he's never been there.
The sun had set and so had his dreams.
A suit of armor provides excellent sun protection on hot days.
If you really strain your ears, you can just about hear the sound of no one giving a damn.
He swore he just saw his sushi move.
A song can make or ruin a person’s day if they let it get to them.
I ate a sock because people on the Internet told me to.
Now I need to ponder my existence and ask myself if I'm truly real
If you like tuna and tomato sauce, try combining the two, it’s really not as bad as it sounds.
Excitement replaced fear until the final moment.
The tortoise jumped into the lake with dreams of becoming a sea turtle.
We should play with legos at camp.
Dan took the deep dive down the rabbit hole.
Writing a list of random sentences is harder than I initially thought it would be.
Had he known what was going to happen, he would have never stepped into the shower.
The thunderous roar of the jet overhead confirmed her worst fears.
Some bathing suits just shouldn’t be worn by some people.
The balloons floated away along with all my hopes and dreams.
There was no telling what thoughts would come from the machine.
I always dreamed about being stranded on a desert island until it actually happened.
Today is the day I'll finally know what brick tastes like.
The light in his life was actually a fire burning all around him.
He watched the dancing piglets with panda bear tummies in the swimming pool.
Facing his greatest fear, he ate his first marshmallow.
My biggest joy is roasting almonds while stalking prey.
Car safety systems have come a long way, but he was out to prove they could be outsmarted.
The hand sanitizer was actually clear glue.
She advised him to come back at once.
It was a slippery slope and he was willing to slide all the way to the deepest depths.
It must be easy to commit crimes as a snake because you don't have to worry about leaving fingerprints.
In hopes of finding out the truth, he entered the one-room library.
I met an interesting turtle while the song on the radio blasted away.
Don't step on the broken glass.
Sometimes you have to just give up and win by cheating.
It was at that moment that he learned there are certain parts of the body that you should never Nair.
You have every right to be angry, but that doesn't give you the right to be mean.
He found a leprechaun in his walnut shell.
When confronted with a rotary dial phone the teenager was perplexed.
He stepped gingerly onto the bridge knowing that enchantment awaited on the other side.
The door slammed on the watermelon.
Courage and stupidity were all he had.
The trick to getting kids to eat anything is to put catchup on it.
When transplanting seedlings, candied teapots will make the task easier.
Her scream silenced the rowdy teenagers.
They improved dramatically once the lead singer left.
He was the type of guy who liked Christmas lights on his house in the middle of July.
There's an art to getting your way, and spitting olive pits across the table isn't it.
When he asked her favorite number, she answered without hesitation that it was diamonds.
This is a Japanese doll.
They were excited to see their first sloth.
I'm worried by the fact that my daughter looks to the local carpet seller as a role model.
Hit me with your pet shark!
The truth is that you pay for your lifestyle in hours.
Behind the window was a reflection that only instilled fear.
You're good at English when you know the difference between a man eating chicken and a man-eating chicken.
He dreamed of eating green apples with worms.
She thought there'd be sufficient time if she hid her watch.
It took me too long to realize that the ceiling hadn't been painted to look like the sky.
A good example of a useful vegetable is medicinal rhubarb.
The fence was confused about whether it was supposed to keep things in or keep things out.
Henry couldn't decide if he was an auto mechanic or a priest.
Greetings from the real universe.
Being unacquainted with the chief raccoon was harming his prospects for promotion.
Homesickness became contagious in the young campers' cabin.
He is no James Bond; his name is Roger Moore.
Yeah, I think it's a good environment for learning English.
They decided to plant an orchard of cotton candy.
There were white out conditions in the town; subsequently, the roads were impassable.
The fox in the tophat whispered into the ear of the rabbit.
Today we gathered moss for my uncle's wedding.
Nobody loves a pig wearing lipstick.
Having no hair made him look even hairier.
My uncle's favorite pastime was building cars out of noodles.
The sign said there was road work ahead so he decided to speed up.
He realized there had been several deaths on this road, but his concern rose when he saw the exact number.
Dolores wouldn't have eaten the meal if she had known what it actually was.
The father handed each child a roadmap at the beginning of the 2-day road trip and explained it was so they could find their way home.
Love is not like pizza.
Douglas figured the best way to succeed was to do the opposite of what he'd been doing all his life.
The secret code they created made no sense, even to them.
He was sure the Devil created red sparkly glitter.
She wondered what his eyes were saying beneath his mirrored sunglasses.
He wasn't bitter that she had moved on but from the radish.
Three years later, the coffin was still full of Jello.
The pet shop stocks everything you need to keep your anaconda happy.
The father died during childbirth.
It didn't take long for Gary to detect the robbers were amateurs.
They called out her name time and again, but were met with nothing but silence.
Best friends are like old tomatoes and shoelaces.
Today arrived with a crash of my car through the garage door.
I would be delighted if the sea were full of cucumber juice.
Mom didn’t understand why no one else wanted a hot tub full of jello.
People generally approve of dogs eating cat food but not cats eating dog food.
He played the game as if his life depended on it and the truth was that it did.
He ended up burning his fingers poking someone else's fire.
Andy loved to sleep on a bed of nails.
She found his complete dullness interesting.
Before he moved to the inner city, he had always believed that security complexes were psychological.
The rusty nail stood erect, angled at a 45-degree angle, just waiting for the perfect barefoot to come along.
The two walked down the slot canyon oblivious to the sound of thunder in the distance.
The delicious aroma from the kitchen was ruined by cigarette smoke.
Italy is my favorite country; in fact, I plan to spend two weeks there next year.
Malls are great places to shop; I can find everything I need under one roof.
As he entered the church he could hear the soft voice of someone whispering into a cell phone.
The fact that there's a stairway to heaven and a highway to hell explains life well.
The family’s excitement over going to Disneyland was crazier than she anticipated.
Her hair was windswept as she rode in the black convertible.
He quietly entered the museum as the super bowl started.
He found the chocolate covered roaches quite tasty.
Please tell me you don't work in a morgue.
While on the first date he accidentally hit his head on the beam.
He excelled at firing people nicely.
Iron pyrite is the most foolish of all minerals.
Nancy decided to make the porta-potty her home.
I love eating toasted cheese and tuna sandwiches.
He was willing to find the depths of the rabbit hole in order to be with her.
Joyce enjoyed eating pancakes with ketchup.
That is an appealing treasure map that I can't read.
The rain pelted the windshield as the darkness engulfed us.
Let me help you with your baggage.
He set out for a short walk, but now all he could see were mangroves and water were for miles.
The gloves protect my feet from excess work.
He decided that the time had come to be stronger than any of the excuses he'd used until then.
Happiness can be found in the depths of chocolate pudding.
She tilted her head back and let whip cream stream into her mouth while taking a bath.
I used to live in my neighbor's fishpond, but the aesthetic wasn't to my taste.
It took him a while to realize that everything he decided not to change, he was actually choosing.
It didn't make sense unless you had the power to eat colors.
She says she has the ability to hear the soundtrack of your life.
Tuesdays are free if you bring a gnome costume.
25 years later, she still regretted that specific moment.
Flying fish flew by the space station.
Various sea birds are elegant, but nothing is as elegant as a gliding pelican.
Hang on, my kittens are scratching at the bathtub and they'll upset by the lack of biscuits.
The group quickly understood that toxic waste was the most effective barrier to use against the zombies.
The beach was crowded with snow leopards.
Grape jelly was leaking out the hole in the roof.
I trust everything that's written in purple ink.
Peanut butter and jelly caused the elderly lady to think about her past.
There are no heroes in a punk rock band.
The tumbleweed refused to tumble but was more than willing to prance.
I know many children ask for a pony, but I wanted a bicycle with rockets strapped to it.
Warm beer on a cold day isn't my idea of fun.
Be careful with that butter knife.
Her life in the confines of the house became her new normal.
He was an introvert that extroverts seemed to love.
She opened up her third bottle of wine of the night.
I never knew what hardship looked like until it started raining bowling balls.
The manager of the fruit stand always sat and only sold vegetables.
Nancy was proud that she ran a tight shipwreck.
I hear that Nancy is very pretty.
They finished building the road they knew no one would ever use.
The minute she landed she understood the reason this was a fly-over state.
I am counting my calories, yet I really want dessert.
I'm confused: when people ask me what's up, and I point, they groan.
At last
I'm a great listener, really good with empathy vs sympathy and all that, but I hate people.
He had a wall full of masks so she could wear a different face every day.
She learned that water bottles are no longer just to hold liquid, but they're also status symbols.
I became paranoid that the school of jellyfish was spying on me.
Cats are good pets, for they are clean and are not noisy.
We're careful about orange ping pong balls because people might think they're fruit.
Joe made the sugar cookies; Susan decorated them.
She was sad to hear that fireflies are facing extinction due to artificial light, habitat loss, and pesticides.
My dentist tells me that chewing bricks is very bad for your teeth.
If eating three-egg omelets causes weight-gain, budgie eggs are a good substitute.
Charles ate the french fries knowing they would be his last meal.
She can live her life however she wants as long as she listens to what I have to say.
The golden retriever loved the fireworks each Fourth of July.
He had a hidden stash underneath the floorboards in the back room of the house.
There can never be too many cherries on an ice cream sundae.
The efficiency with which he paired the socks in the drawer was quite admirable.
They desperately needed another drummer since the current one only knew how to play bongos.
At that moment I was the most fearsome weasel in the entire swamp.
She insisted that cleaning out your closet was the key to good driving.
The irony of the situation wasn't lost on anyone in the room.
When he had to picnic on the beach, he purposely put sand in other people’s food.
Please put on these earmuffs because I can't you hear.
He said he was not there yesterday; however, many people saw him there.
He found his art never progressed when he literally used his sweat and tears.
I checked to make sure that he was still alive.
Nothing seemed out of place except the washing machine in the bar.
The overpass went under the highway and into a secret world.
Separation anxiety is what happens when you can't find your phone.
Patricia loves the sound of nails strongly pressed against the chalkboard.
The worst thing about being at the top of the career ladder is that there's a long way to fall.
Everything was going so well until I was accosted by a purple giraffe.
The memory we used to share is no longer coherent.
Truth in advertising and dinosaurs with skateboards have much in common.
When he encountered maize for the first time, he thought it incredibly corny.
They got there early, and they got really good seats.
On a scale from one to ten, what's your favorite flavor of random grammar?
It was the first time he had ever seen someone cook dinner on an elephant.
Improve your goldfish's physical fitness by getting him a bicycle.
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.
She wasn't sure whether to be impressed or concerned that he folded underwear in neat little packages.
A kangaroo is really just a rabbit on steroids.
The hawk didn’t understand why the ground squirrels didn’t want to be his friend.
As she walked along the street and looked in the gutter, she realized facemasks had become the new cigarette butts.
The chic gangster liked to start the day with a pink scarf.
Beach-combing replaced wine tasting as his new obsession.
He waited for the stop sign to turn to a go sign.
Although it wasn't a pot of gold, Nancy was still enthralled at what she found at the end of the rainbow.
It must be five o'clock somewhere.
If my calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than my browser history.
The three-year-old girl ran down the beach as the kite flew behind her.
When I was little I had a car door slammed shut on my hand and I still remember it quite vividly.
The glacier came alive as the climbers hiked closer.
He poured rocks in the dungeon of his mind.
She could hear him in the shower singing with a joy she hoped he'd retain after she delivered the news.
The mysterious diary records the voice.
As you consider all the possible ways to improve yourself and the world, you notice John Travolta seems fairly unhappy.
He had reached the point where he was paranoid about being paranoid.
Today I dressed my unicorn in preparation for the race.
I only enjoy window shopping when the windows are transparent.
The beauty of the sunset was obscured by the industrial cranes.
She was the type of girl that always burnt sugar to show she cared.
She was amazed by the large chunks of ice washing up on the beach.
The Guinea fowl flies through the air with all the grace of a turtle.
He invested some skill points in Charisma and Strength.
The miniature pet elephant became the envy of the neighborhood.
This book is sure to liquefy your brain.
The changing of down comforters to cotton bedspreads always meant the squirrels had returned.
Despite multiple complications and her near-death experience
Greetings from the galaxy MACS0647-JD, or what we call home.
He found the end of the rainbow and was surprised at what he found there.
Kevin embraced his ability to be at the wrong place at the wrong time.
As he dangled from the rope deep inside the crevasse
Harrold felt confident that nobody would ever suspect his spy pigeon.
Always bring cinnamon buns on a deep-sea diving expedition.
The tattered work gloves speak of the many hours of hard labor he endured throughout his life.
She always speaks to him in a loud voice.
I was offended by the suggestion that my baby brother was a jewel thief.
He told us a very exciting adventure story.
The dead trees waited to be ignited by the smallest spark and seek their revenge.
There's a message for you if you look up.
The knives were out and she was sharpening hers.
His get rich quick scheme was to grow a cactus farm.
He decided to count all the sand on the beach as a hobby.
Normal activities took extraordinary amounts of concentration at the high altitude.
When I cook spaghetti, I like to boil it a few minutes past al dente so the noodles are super slippery.
The heat
At that moment she realized she had a sixth sense.
Of course, she loves her pink bunny slippers.
He was 100% into fasting with her until he understood that meant he couldn't eat.
Everyone pretends to like wheat until you mention barley.
She lived on Monkey Jungle Road and that seemed to explain all of her strangeness.
Cursive writing is the best way to build a race track.
Never underestimate the willingness of the greedy to throw you under the bus.
The Japanese yen for commerce is still well-known.
We need to rent a room for our party.
Honestly, I didn't care much for the first season, so I didn't bother with the second.
With a single flip of the coin, his life changed forever.
She looked at the masterpiece hanging in the museum but all she could think is that her five-year-old could do better.
Their argument could be heard across the parking lot.
The light that burns twice as bright burns half as long.
It was obvious she was hot, sweaty, and tired.
Chocolate covered crickets were his favorite snack.
Sometimes it is better to just walk away from things and go back to them later when you’re in a better frame of mind.
She had the gift of being able to paint songs.
They throw cabbage that turns your brain into emotional baggage.
He was so preoccupied with whether or not he could that he failed to stop to consider if he should.
He figured a few sticks of dynamite were easier than a fishing pole to catch fish.
They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
He drank life before spitting it out.
I’m working on a sweet potato farm.
Today I heard something new and unmemorable.
You bite up because of your lower jaw.
They're playing the piano while flying in the plane.
The doll spun around in circles in hopes of coming alive.
When nobody is around, the trees gossip about the people who have walked under them.
A glittering gem is not enough.
The spa attendant applied the deep cleaning mask to the gentleman’s back.
I'd always thought lightning was something only I could see.
I may struggle with geography, but I'm sure I'm somewhere around here.
If you spin around three times, you'll start to feel melancholy.
Thigh-high in the water, the fisherman’s hope for dinner soon turned to despair.
Choosing to do nothing is still a choice, after all.
The busker hoped that the people passing by would throw money, but they threw tomatoes instead, so he exchanged his hat for a juicer.
Nobody has encountered an explosive daisy and lived to tell the tale.
The skeleton had skeletons of his own in the closet.
He had a vague sense that trees gave birth to dinosaurs.
For some unfathomable reason, the response team didn't consider a lack of milk for my cereal as a proper emergency.
There's no reason a hula hoop can't also be a circus ring.
The ice-cream trucks bring back bad memories for all of us.
It was always dangerous to drive with him since he insisted the safety cones were a slalom course.
Written warnings in instruction manuals are worthless since rabbits can't read.
Dan ate the clouds like cotton candy.
The efficiency we have at removing trash has made creating trash more acceptable.
Two more days and all his problems would be solved.
The toddler’s endless tantrum caused the entire plane anxiety.
The sky is clear; the stars are twinkling.
She discovered van life is difficult with 2 cats and a dog.
Her daily goal was to improve on yesterday.
Even with the snow falling outside, she felt it appropriate to wear her bikini.
He had concluded that pigs must be able to fly in Hog Heaven.
As the years pass by, we all know owners look more and more like their dogs.
He colored deep space a soft yellow.
People who insist on picking their teeth with their elbows are so annoying!
His mind was blown that there was nothing in space except space itself.
Green should have smelled more tranquil, but somehow it just tasted rotten.
Getting up at dawn is for the birds.
She moved forward only because she trusted that the ending she now was going through must be followed by a new beginning.
One small action would change her life, but whether it would be for better or for worse was yet to be determined.
Mary realized if her calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than her computer browser history.
The estate agent quickly marked out his territory on the dance floor.
They looked up at the sky and saw a million stars.
Even though he thought the world was flat he didn’t see the irony of wanting to travel around the world.
Poison ivy grew through the fence they said was impenetrable.
Smoky the Bear secretly started the fires.
Your girlfriend bought your favorite cookie crisp cereal but forgot to get milk.
There were a lot of paintings of monkeys waving bamboo sticks in the gallery.
The sunblock was handed to the girl before practice, but the burned skin was proof she did not apply it.
Everybody should read Chaucer to improve their everyday vocabulary.
She hadn't had her cup of coffee, and that made things all the worse.
Her fragrance of choice was fresh garlic.
He strives to keep the best lawn in the neighborhood.
Garlic ice-cream was her favorite.
Situps are a terrible way to end your day.
I would have gotten the promotion, but my attendance wasn’t good enough.
She found it strange that people use their cellphones to actually talk to one another.
He was disappointed when he found the beach to be so sandy and the sun so sunny.
Random words in front of other random words create a random sentence.
Peter found road kill an excellent way to save money on dinner.
With the high wind warning
He was the only member of the club who didn't like plum pudding.
David proudly graduated from high school top of his class at age 97.
He went back to the video to see what had been recorded and was shocked at what he saw.
She folded her handkerchief neatly.
Fluffy pink unicorns are a popular status symbol among macho men.
I am happy to take your donation; any amount will be greatly appreciated.
Two seats were vacant.
The wooden spoon couldn’t cut but left emotional scars.
Nancy thought the best way to create a welcoming home was to line it with barbed wire.
The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
He wore the surgical mask in public not to keep from catching a virus, but to keep people away from him.
The ants enjoyed the barbecue more than the family.
You should never take advice from someone who thinks red paint dries quicker than blue paint.
I used to practice weaving with spaghetti three hours a day but stopped because I didn't want to die alone.
Someone I know recently combined Maple Syrup & buttered Popcorn thinking it would taste like caramel popcorn. It didn’t and they don’t recommend anyone else do it either.
She saw the brake lights, but not in time.
We have a lot of rain in June.
Check back tomorrow; I will see if the book has arrived.
I really want to go to work, but I am too sick to drive.
He enjoys practicing his ballet in the bathroom.
The old apple revels in its authority.
My Mum tries to be cool by saying that she likes all the same things that I do.
It was a really good Monday for being a Saturday.
Tom got a small piece of pie.
All she wanted was the answer, but she had no idea how much she would hate it.
He loved eating his bananas in hot dog buns.
He looked behind the door and didn't like what he saw.
If any cop asks you where you were, just say you were visiting Kansas.
The near-death experience brought new ideas to light.
Pat ordered a ghost pepper pie.
The door swung open to reveal pink giraffes and red elephants.
After coating myself in vegetable oil I found my success rate skyrocketed.
The clouds formed beautiful animals in the sky that eventually created a tornado to wreak havoc.
A dead duck doesn't fly backward.
They say that dogs are man's best friend, but this cat was setting out to sabotage that theory.
The small white buoys marked the location of hundreds of crab pots.
I was very proud of my nickname throughout high school but today- I couldn’t be any different to what my nickname was.
Doris enjoyed tapping her nails on the table to annoy everyone.
He picked up trash in his spare time to dump in his neighbor's yard.
It dawned on her that others could make her happier, but only she could make herself happy.
his seven-layer cake only had six layers.
100 years old is such a young age if you happen to be a bristlecone pine.
Combines are no longer just for farms.
Jason didn’t understand why his parents wouldn’t let him sell his little sister at the garage sale.
The teenage boy was accused of breaking his arm simply to get out of the test.
The bread dough reminded her of Santa Clause’s belly.
You have no right to call yourself creative until you look at a trowel and think that it would make a great lockpick.
The tart lemonade quenched her thirst, but not her longing.
He stomped on his fruit loops and thus became a cereal killer.
The waves were crashing on the shore; it was a lovely sight.
I received a heavy fine but it failed to crush my spirit.
It isn't difficult to do a handstand if you just stand on your hands.
After exploring the abandoned building, he started to believe in ghosts.
Each person who knows you has a different perception of who you are.
He was surprised that his immense laziness was inspirational to others.
Swim at your own risk was taken as a challenge for the group of Kansas City college students.
You can't compare apples and oranges, but what about bananas and plantains?
She had a habit of taking showers in lemonade.
She traveled because it cost the same as therapy and was a lot more enjoyable.
He found rain fascinating yet unpleasant.
She let the balloon float up into the air with her hopes and dreams.
His son quipped that power bars were nothing more than adult candy bars.
He fumbled in the darkness looking for the light switch, but when he finally found it there was someone already there.
He hated that he loved what she hated about hate.
Strawberries must be the one food that doesn't go well with this brand of paint.
Acres of almond trees lined the interstate highway which complimented the crazy driving nuts.
This is the last random sentence I will be writing and I am going to stop mid-sent
Don't put peanut butter on the dog's nose.
He had decided to accept his fate of accepting his fate.
It's not often you find a soggy banana on the street.
Boulders lined the side of the road foretelling what could come next.
He's in a boy band which doesn't make much sense for a snake.
He had accidentally hacked into his company's server.
Lucifer was surprised at the amount of life at Death Valley.
There are over 500 starfish in the bathroom drawer.
Barking dogs and screaming toddlers have the unique ability to turn friendly neighbors into cranky enemies.
He walked into the basement with the horror movie from the night before playing in his head.
Despite what your teacher may have told you, there is a wrong way to wield a lasso.
I honestly find her about as intimidating as a basket of kittens.
He went on a whiskey diet and immediately lost three days.
Red is greener than purple, for sure.
Karen believed all traffic laws should be obeyed by all except herself.
She felt that chill that makes the hairs on the back of your neck when he walked into the room.
Carol drank the blood as if she were a vampire.
Their argument could be heard across the parking lot.
He decided to count all the sand on the beach as a hobby.
They looked up at the sky and saw a million stars.
While on the first date he accidentally hit his head on the beam.
Lets all be unique together until we realise we are all the same.
You'll see the rainbow bridge after it rains cats and dogs.
She only paints with bold colors; she does not like pastels.
He found his art never progressed when he literally used his sweat and tears.
Now I need to ponder my existence and ask myself if I'm truly real
Rock music approaches at high velocity.
The fish dreamed of escaping the fishbowl and into the toilet where he saw his friend go.
After coating myself in vegetable oil I found my success rate skyrocketed.
My uncle's favorite pastime was building cars out of noodles.
She insisted that cleaning out your closet was the key to good driving.
Karen realized the only way she was getting into heaven was to cheat.
It was getting dark, and we weren’t there yet.
The near-death experience brought new ideas to light.
The book is in front of the table.
Eating eggs on Thursday for choir practice was recommended.
The external scars tell only part of the story.
He appeared to be confusingly perplexed.
He was sure the Devil created red sparkly glitter.
Tom got a small piece of pie.
Malls are great places to shop; I can find everything I need under one roof.
His get rich quick scheme was to grow a cactus farm.
I’m a living furnace.
Behind the window was a reflection that only instilled fear.
Most shark attacks occur about 10 feet from the beach since that's where the people are.
When confronted with a rotary dial phone the teenager was perplexed.
I cheated while playing the darts tournament by using a longbow.
The random sentence generator generated a random sentence about a random sentence.
Hit me with your pet shark!
The elderly neighborhood became enraged over the coyotes who had been blamed for the poodle’s disappearance.
Everyone pretends to like wheat until you mention barley.
Weather is not trivial - it's especially important when you're standing in it.
He decided to fake his disappearance to avoid jail.
I caught my squirrel rustling through my gym bag.
He went back to the video to see what had been recorded and was shocked at what he saw.
The wooden spoon couldn’t cut but left emotional scars.
The spa attendant applied the deep cleaning mask to the gentleman’s back.
I want more detailed information.
I purchased a baby clown from the Russian terrorist black market.
The stench from the feedlot permeated the car despite having the air conditioning on recycled air.
She was the type of girl who wanted to live in a pink house.
When he had to picnic on the beach, he purposely put sand in other people’s food.
Dan ate the clouds like cotton candy.
We should play with legos at camp.
Abstraction is often one floor above you.
My biggest joy is roasting almonds while stalking prey.
The father died during childbirth.
The beauty of the sunset was obscured by the industrial cranes.
Shingle color was not something the couple had ever talked about.
Nancy was proud that she ran a tight shipwreck.
The furnace repairman indicated the heating system was acting as an air conditioner.
I liked their first two albums but changed my mind after that charity gig.
He invested some skill points in Charisma and Strength.
I trust everything that's written in purple ink.
Nothing is as cautiously cuddly as a pet porcupine.
She saw the brake lights, but not in time.
A purple pig and a green donkey flew a kite in the middle of the night and ended up sunburnt.
They improved dramatically once the lead singer left.
Written warnings in instruction manuals are worthless since rabbits can't read.
I never knew what hardship looked like until it started raining bowling balls.
The best key lime pie is still up for debate.
The manager of the fruit stand always sat and only sold vegetables.
When he asked her favorite number, she answered without hesitation that it was diamonds.
The most exciting eureka moment I've had was when I realized that the instructions on food packets were just guidelines.
The body piercing didn't go exactly as he expected.
I always dreamed about being stranded on a desert island until it actually happened.
He is no James Bond; his name is Roger Moore.
Blue sounded too cold at the time and yet it seemed to work for gin.
The murder hornet was disappointed by the preconceived ideas people had of him.
Pantyhose and heels are an interesting choice of attire for the beach.
He wore the surgical mask in public not to keep from catching a virus, but to keep people away from him.
Swim at your own risk was taken as a challenge for the group of Kansas City college students.
The clouds formed beautiful animals in the sky that eventually created a tornado to wreak havoc.
The old rusted farm equipment surrounded the house predicting its demise.
It was the best sandcastle he had ever seen.
The opportunity of a lifetime passed before him as he tried to decide between a cone or a cup.
At that moment she realized she had a sixth sense.
Lightning Paradise was the local hangout joint where the group usually ended up spending the night.
When she didn’t like a guy who was trying to pick her up, she started using sign language.
Mary realized if her calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than her computer browser history.
She couldn't decide of the glass was half empty or half full so she drank it.
Cats are good pets, for they are clean and are not noisy.
I would have gotten the promotion, but my attendance wasn’t good enough.
Not all people who wander are lost.
I've traveled all around Africa and still haven't found the gnu who stole my scarf.
There are over 500 starfish in the bathroom drawer.
Boulders lined the side of the road foretelling what could come next.
A quiet house is nice until you are ordered to stay in it for months.
Toddlers feeding raccoons surprised even the seasoned park ranger.
They were excited to see their first sloth.
Peanut butter and jelly caused the elderly lady to think about her past.
She folded her handkerchief neatly.
The sun had set and so had his dreams.
Mr. Montoya knows the way to the bakery even though he's never been there.
He figured a few sticks of dynamite were easier than a fishing pole to catch fish.
Harrold felt confident that nobody would ever suspect his spy pigeon.
My Mum tries to be cool by saying that she likes all the same things that I do.
The lake is a long way from here.
I was offended by the suggestion that my baby brother was a jewel thief.
It isn't difficult to do a handstand if you just stand on your hands.
She lived on Monkey Jungle Road and that seemed to explain all of her strangeness.
Three years later, the coffin was still full of Jello.
She was sad to hear that fireflies are facing extinction due to artificial light, habitat loss, and pesticides.
He decided to live his life by the big beats manifesto.
There was no telling what thoughts would come from the machine.
Patricia loves the sound of nails strongly pressed against the chalkboard.
Tomatoes make great weapons when water balloons aren’t available.
Cursive writing is the best way to build a race track.
Nobody questions who built the pyramids in Mexico.
The team members were hard to tell apart since they all wore their hair in a ponytail.
A kangaroo is really just a rabbit on steroids.
He liked to play with words in the bathtub.
He had decided to accept his fate of accepting his fate.
The tumbleweed refused to tumble but was more than willing to prance.
He wondered if it could be called a beach if there was no sand.
I am my aunt's sister's daughter.
I know many children ask for a pony, but I wanted a bicycle with rockets strapped to it.
After fighting off the alligator, Brian still had to face the anaconda.
Italy is my favorite country; in fact, I plan to spend two weeks there next year.
Various sea birds are elegant, but nothing is as elegant as a gliding pelican.
He had a vague sense that trees gave birth to dinosaurs.
I had a friend in high school named Rick Shaw, but he was fairly useless as a mode of transport.
Dolores wouldn't have eaten the meal if she had known what it actually was.
She says she has the ability to hear the soundtrack of your life.
The estate agent quickly marked out his territory on the dance floor.
The anaconda was the greatest criminal mastermind in this part of the neighborhood.
Never underestimate the willingness of the greedy to throw you under the bus.
The heat
We have a lot of rain in June.
The lyrics of the song sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard.
I've always wanted to go to Tajikistan, but my cat would miss me.
Wisdom is easily acquired when hiding under the bed with a saucepan on your head.
Car safety systems have come a long way, but he was out to prove they could be outsmarted.
She was amazed by the large chunks of ice washing up on the beach.
He quietly entered the museum as the super bowl started.
Everybody should read Chaucer to improve their everyday vocabulary.
His mind was blown that there was nothing in space except space itself.
Improve your goldfish's physical fitness by getting him a bicycle.
You can't compare apples and oranges, but what about bananas and plantains?
The pet shop stocks everything you need to keep your anaconda happy.
Love is not like pizza.
She did her best to help him.
He said he was not there yesterday; however, many people saw him there.
This is a Japanese doll.
Plans for this weekend include turning wine into water.
The blue parrot drove by the hitchhiking mongoose.
The glacier came alive as the climbers hiked closer.
The busker hoped that the people passing by would throw money, but they threw tomatoes instead, so he exchanged his hat for a juicer.
Hang on, my kittens are scratching at the bathtub and they'll upset by the lack of biscuits.
He wondered why at 18 he was old enough to go to war, but not old enough to buy cigarettes.
The child’s favorite Christmas gift was the large box her father’s lawnmower came in.
The changing of down comforters to cotton bedspreads always meant the squirrels had returned.
Erin accidentally created a new universe.
Karen believed all traffic laws should be obeyed by all except herself.
There is no better feeling than staring at a wall with closed eyes.
They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
He ended up burning his fingers poking someone else's fire.
Sometimes it is better to just walk away from things and go back to them later when you’re in a better frame of mind.
The old apple revels in its authority.
She wanted to be rescued, but only if it was Tuesday and raining.
The doll spun around in circles in hopes of coming alive.
The green tea and avocado smoothie turned out exactly as would be expected.
She learned that water bottles are no longer just to hold liquid, but they're also status symbols.
Tomorrow will bring something new, so leave today as a memory.
They throw cabbage that turns your brain into emotional baggage.
It didn't make sense unless you had the power to eat colors.
Nudist colonies shun fig-leaf couture.
The tattered work gloves speak of the many hours of hard labor he endured throughout his life.
The paintbrush was angry at the color the artist chose to use.
You have no right to call yourself creative until you look at a trowel and think that it would make a great lockpick.
Instead of a bachelorette party
There's a growing trend among teenagers of using frisbees as go-cart wheels.
The virus had powers none of us knew existed.
Even though he thought the world was flat he didn’t see the irony of wanting to travel around the world.
The worst thing about being at the top of the career ladder is that there's a long way to fall.
He was surprised that his immense laziness was inspirational to others.
He would only survive if he kept the fire going and he could hear thunder in the distance.
I really want to go to work, but I am too sick to drive.
The dead trees waited to be ignited by the smallest spark and seek their revenge.
He didn't understand why the bird wanted to ride the bicycle.
The ants enjoyed the barbecue more than the family.
I like to leave work after my eight-hour tea-break.
The tree fell unexpectedly short.
She wanted a pet platypus but ended up getting a duck and a ferret instead.
The light in his life was actually a fire burning all around him.
Your girlfriend bought your favorite cookie crisp cereal but forgot to get milk.
I thought red would have felt warmer in summer but I didn't think about the equator.
Honestly, I didn't care much for the first season, so I didn't bother with the second.
Thirty years later, she still thought it was okay to put the toilet paper roll under rather than over.
Pat ordered a ghost pepper pie.
Strawberries must be the one food that doesn't go well with this brand of paint.
The skeleton had skeletons of his own in the closet.
If I don’t like something, I’ll stay away from it.
His ultimate dream fantasy consisted of being content and sleeping eight hours in a row.
He was so preoccupied with whether or not he could that he failed to stop to consider if he should.
Facing his greatest fear, he ate his first marshmallow.
She hadn't had her cup of coffee, and that made things all the worse.
There was coal in his stocking and he was thrilled.
The tortoise jumped into the lake with dreams of becoming a sea turtle.
She moved forward only because she trusted that the ending she now was going through must be followed by a new beginning.
The overpass went under the highway and into a secret world.
Nobody loves a pig wearing lipstick.
I met an interesting turtle while the song on the radio blasted away.
He dreamed of eating green apples with worms.
The balloons floated away along with all my hopes and dreams.
It turns out you don't need all that stuff you insisted you did.
He had concluded that pigs must be able to fly in Hog Heaven.
As the asteroid hurtled toward earth, Becky was upset her dentist appointment had been canceled.
Garlic ice-cream was her favorite.
I'll have you know I've written over fifty novels
Baby wipes are made of chocolate stardust.
Gwen had her best sleep ever on her new bed of nails.
Greetings from the real universe.
The small white buoys marked the location of hundreds of crab pots.
He had a wall full of masks so she could wear a different face every day.
I'd rather be a bird than a fish.
He wasn't bitter that she had moved on but from the radish.
When he encountered maize for the first time, he thought it incredibly corny.
The sky is clear; the stars are twinkling.
I am never at home on Sundays.
It was obvious she was hot, sweaty, and tired.
Jim liked driving around town with his hazard lights on.
It didn't take long for Gary to detect the robbers were amateurs.
He had accidentally hacked into his company's server.
The minute she landed she understood the reason this was a fly-over state.
All they could see was the blue water surrounding their sailboat.
He embraced his new life as an eggplant.
She finally understood that grief was her love with no place for it to go.
The irony of the situation wasn't lost on anyone in the room.
The waitress was not amused when he ordered green eggs and ham.
The door swung open to reveal pink giraffes and red elephants.
The fact that there's a stairway to heaven and a highway to hell explains life well.
It took me too long to realize that the ceiling hadn't been painted to look like the sky.
There's a reason that roses have thorns.
He poured rocks in the dungeon of his mind.
It was at that moment that he learned there are certain parts of the body that you should never Nair.
Mary plays the piano.
He barked orders at his daughters but they just stared back with amusement.
All she wanted was the answer, but she had no idea how much she would hate it.
When I cook spaghetti, I like to boil it a few minutes past al dente so the noodles are super slippery.
Thigh-high in the water, the fisherman’s hope for dinner soon turned to despair.
Acres of almond trees lined the interstate highway which complimented the crazy driving nuts.
He had reached the point where he was paranoid about being paranoid.
You should never take advice from someone who thinks red paint dries quicker than blue paint.
Her fragrance of choice was fresh garlic.
In hopes of finding out the truth, he entered the one-room library.
She was only made the society president because she can whistle with her toes.
They called out her name time and again, but were met with nothing but silence.
He was disappointed when he found the beach to be so sandy and the sun so sunny.
David subscribes to the "stuff your tent into the bag" strategy over nicely folding it.
He watched the dancing piglets with panda bear tummies in the swimming pool.
On each full moon
The beach was crowded with snow leopards.
The river stole the gods.
There were white out conditions in the town; subsequently, the roads were impassable.
I became paranoid that the school of jellyfish was spying on me.
Tuesdays are free if you bring a gnome costume.
Mothers spend months of their lives waiting on their children.
There's no reason a hula hoop can't also be a circus ring.
Just because the water is red doesn't mean you can't drink it.
Nothing seemed out of place except the washing machine in the bar.
He uses onomatopoeia as a weapon of mental destruction.
You bite up because of your lower jaw.
As he entered the church he could hear the soft voice of someone whispering into a cell phone.
It's difficult to understand the lengths he'd go to remain short.
Joe discovered that traffic cones make excellent megaphones.
Despite what your teacher may have told you, there is a wrong way to wield a lasso.
He went on a whiskey diet and immediately lost three days.
I am counting my calories, yet I really want dessert.
They got there early, and they got really good seats.
If any cop asks you where you were, just say you were visiting Kansas.
She wore green lipstick like a fashion icon.
8% of 25 is the same as 25% of 8 and one of them is much easier to do in your head.
The trick to getting kids to eat anything is to put catchup on it.
Always bring cinnamon buns on a deep-sea diving expedition.
The fifty mannequin heads floating in the pool kind of freaked them out.
The mysterious diary records the voice.
We have young kids who often walk into our room at night for various reasons including clowns in the closet.
He hated that he loved what she hated about hate.
Just go ahead and press that button.
She is never happy until she finds something to be unhappy about; then, she is overjoyed.
I've never seen a more beautiful brandy glass filled with wine.
I used to practice weaving with spaghetti three hours a day but stopped because I didn't want to die alone.
He spiked his hair green to support his iguana.
Be careful with that butter knife.
She looked at the masterpiece hanging in the museum but all she could think is that her five-year-old could do better.
Before he moved to the inner city, he had always believed that security complexes were psychological.
She saw no irony asking me to change but wanting me to accept her for who she is.
They finished building the road they knew no one would ever use.
Let me help you with your baggage.
Purple is the best city in the forest.
The bread dough reminded her of Santa Clause’s belly.
He put heat on the wound to see what would grow.
Grape jelly was leaking out the hole in the roof.
If you spin around three times, you'll start to feel melancholy.
The toddler’s endless tantrum caused the entire plane anxiety.
The gruff old man sat in the back of the bait shop grumbling to himself as he scooped out a handful of worms.
I love eating toasted cheese and tuna sandwiches.
He felt that dining on the bridge brought romance to his relationship with his cat.
There aren't enough towels in the world to stop the sewage flowing from his mouth.
While all her friends were positive that Mary had a sixth sense, she knew she actually had a seventh sense.
It would have been a better night if the guys next to us weren't in the splash zone.
Choosing to do nothing is still a choice, after all.
I only enjoy window shopping when the windows are transparent.
When nobody is around, the trees gossip about the people who have walked under them.
He strives to keep the best lawn in the neighborhood.
To the surprise of everyone, the Rapture happened yesterday but it didn't quite go as expected.
She had convinced her kids that any mushroom found on the ground would kill them if they touched it.
It was a really good Monday for being a Saturday.
Patricia found the meaning of life in a bowl of Cheerios.
He created a pig burger out of beef.
It was a slippery slope and he was willing to slide all the way to the deepest depths.
He set out for a short walk, but now all he could see were mangroves and water were for miles.
Writing a list of random sentences is harder than I initially thought it would be.
She looked into the mirror and saw another person.
It dawned on her that others could make her happier, but only she could make herself happy.
He found a leprechaun in his walnut shell.
Iron pyrite is the most foolish of all minerals.
I currently have 4 windows open up… and I don’t know why.
Peanuts don't grow on trees, but cashews do.
The rusty nail stood erect, angled at a 45-degree angle, just waiting for the perfect barefoot to come along.
He didn’t want to go to the dentist, yet he went anyway.
For oil spots on the floor, nothing beats parking a motorbike in the lounge.
The hummingbird's wings blurred while it eagerly sipped the sugar water from the feeder.
I want to buy a onesie… but know it won’t suit me.
Martha came to the conclusion that shake weights are a great gift for any occasion.
Too many prisons have become early coffins.
At that moment he wasn't listening to music, he was living an experience.
He took one look at what was under the table and noped the hell out of there.
Shakespeare was a famous 17th-century diesel mechanic.
She cried diamonds.
Pair your designer cowboy hat with scuba gear for a memorable occasion.
The miniature pet elephant became the envy of the neighborhood.
If you really strain your ears, you can just about hear the sound of no one giving a damn.
I don’t respect anybody who can’t tell the difference between Pepsi and Coke.
Jenny made the announcement that her baby was an alien.
Her life in the confines of the house became her new normal.
He picked up trash in his spare time to dump in his neighbor's yard.
Everyone was busy, so I went to the movie alone.
The secret ingredient to his wonderful life was crime.
The shark-infested South Pine channel was the only way in or out.
He was the type of guy who liked Christmas lights on his house in the middle of July.
He enjoys practicing his ballet in the bathroom.
I made myself a peanut butter sandwich as I didn't want to subsist on veggie crackers.
Nancy decided to make the porta-potty her home.
Everyone was curious about the large white blimp that appeared overnight.
Her hair was windswept as she rode in the black convertible.
The father handed each child a roadmap at the beginning of the 2-day road trip and explained it was so they could find their way home.
Sometimes you have to just give up and win by cheating.
She wrote him a long letter, but he didn't read it.
The Guinea fowl flies through the air with all the grace of a turtle.
They say that dogs are man's best friend, but this cat was setting out to sabotage that theory.
The sight of his goatee made me want to run and hide under my sister-in-law's bed.
This made him feel like an old-style rootbeer float smells.
Doris enjoyed tapping her nails on the table to annoy everyone.
He wondered if she would appreciate his toenail collection.
Chocolate covered crickets were his favorite snack.
The Great Dane looked more like a horse than a dog.
The group quickly understood that toxic waste was the most effective barrier to use against the zombies.
He always wore his sunglasses at night.
Sarah ran from the serial killer holding a jug of milk.
Little Red Riding Hood decided to wear orange today.
I think I will buy the red car, or I will lease the blue one.
his seven-layer cake only had six layers.
I would be delighted if the sea were full of cucumber juice.
Giving directions that the mountains are to the west only works when you can see them.
He loved eating his bananas in hot dog buns.
Joe made the sugar cookies; Susan decorated them.
A good example of a useful vegetable is medicinal rhubarb.
Greetings from the galaxy MACS0647-JD, or what we call home.
As the years pass by, we all know owners look more and more like their dogs.
The hawk didn’t understand why the ground squirrels didn’t want to be his friend.
Although it wasn't a pot of gold, Nancy was still enthralled at what she found at the end of the rainbow.
Standing on one's head at job interviews forms a lasting impression.
Sixty-Four comes asking for bread.
There were three sphered rocks congregating in a cubed room.
Twin 4-month-olds slept in the shade of the palm tree while the mother tanned in the sun.
Red is greener than purple, for sure.
No matter how beautiful the sunset, it saddened her knowing she was one day older.
There's an art to getting your way, and spitting olive pits across the table isn't it.
He told us a very exciting adventure story.
The truth is that you pay for your lifestyle in hours.
Don't put peanut butter on the dog's nose.
Poison ivy grew through the fence they said was impenetrable.
He found the end of the rainbow and was surprised at what he found there.
Jeanne wished she has chosen the red button.
As time wore on, simple dog commands turned into full paragraphs explaining why the dog couldn’t do something.
She was too short to see over the fence.
The reservoir water level continued to lower while we enjoyed our long shower.
It was always dangerous to drive with him since he insisted the safety cones were a slalom course.
On a scale from one to ten, what's your favorite flavor of random grammar?
I received a heavy fine but it failed to crush my spirit.
I checked to make sure that he was still alive.
He walked into the basement with the horror movie from the night before playing in his head.
It was difficult for Mary to admit that most of her workout consisted of exercising poor judgment.
You're unsure whether or not to trust him, but very thankful that you wore a turtle neck.
She had a difficult time owning up to her own crazy self.
If my calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than my browser history.
You're good at English when you know the difference between a man eating chicken and a man-eating chicken.
The view from the lighthouse excited even the most seasoned traveler.
Jason didn’t understand why his parents wouldn’t let him sell his little sister at the garage sale.
The tour bus was packed with teenage girls heading toward their next adventure.
I'm confused: when people ask me what's up, and I point, they groan.
Jerry liked to look at paintings while eating garlic ice cream.
The clock within this blog and the clock on my laptop are 1 hour different from each other.
Excitement replaced fear until the final moment.
They did nothing as the raccoon attacked the lady’s bag of food.
He decided water-skiing on a frozen lake wasn’t a good idea.
He had unknowingly taken up sleepwalking as a nighttime hobby.
Her daily goal was to improve on yesterday.
She had the gift of being able to paint songs.
He excelled at firing people nicely.
He didn't heed the warning and it had turned out surprisingly well.
The fence was confused about whether it was supposed to keep things in or keep things out.
Had he known what was going to happen, he would have never stepped into the shower.
The swirled lollipop had issues with the pop rock candy.
They say people remember important moments in their life well, yet no one even remembers their own birth.
Today I dressed my unicorn in preparation for the race.
You've been eyeing me all day and waiting for your move like a lion stalking a gazelle in a savannah.
The sign said there was road work ahead so he decided to speed up.
So long and thanks for the fish.
Today I heard something new and unmemorable.
The hand sanitizer was actually clear glue.
The knives were out and she was sharpening hers.
It's not often you find a soggy banana on the street.
Despite multiple complications and her near-death experience
It's not possible to convince a monkey to give you a banana by promising it infinite bananas when they die.
The water flowing down the river didn’t look that powerful from the car
In the end, he realized he could see sound and hear words.
He shaved the peach to prove a point.
It took him a month to finish the meal.
They decided to plant an orchard of cotton candy.
She did not cheat on the test, for it was not the right thing to do.
He drank life before spitting it out.
Her scream silenced the rowdy teenagers.
That was how he came to win $1 million.
I used to live in my neighbor's fishpond, but the aesthetic wasn't to my taste.
Having no hair made him look even hairier.
All you need to do is pick up the pen and begin.
It was the scarcity that fueled his creativity.
There have been days when I wished to be separated from my body, but today wasn’t one of those days.
Imagine his surprise when he discovered that the safe was full of pudding.
He turned in the research paper on Friday; otherwise, he would have not passed the class.
Homesickness became contagious in the young campers' cabin.
The sunblock was handed to the girl before practice, but the burned skin was proof she did not apply it.
He stepped gingerly onto the bridge knowing that enchantment awaited on the other side.
The elephant didn't want to talk about the person in the room.
The gloves protect my feet from excess work.
David proudly graduated from high school top of his class at age 97.
Charles ate the french fries knowing they would be his last meal.
It's never been my responsibility to glaze the donuts.
The thick foliage and intertwined vines made the hike nearly impossible.
Combines are no longer just for farms.
Potato wedges probably are not best for relationships.
This is the last random sentence I will be writing and I am going to stop mid-sent
A glittering gem is not enough.
When money was tight, he'd get his lunch money from the local wishing well.
The best part of marriage is animal crackers with peanut butter.
I come from a tribe of head-hunters, so I will never need a shrink.
The white water rafting trip was suddenly halted by the unexpected brick wall.
She traveled because it cost the same as therapy and was a lot more enjoyable.
The tears of a clown make my lipstick run, but my shower cap is still intact.
The door slammed on the watermelon.
Art doesn't have to be intentional.
There are no heroes in a punk rock band.
Courage and stupidity were all he had.
I often see the time 11:11 or 12:34 on clocks.
I'm not a party animal, but I do like animal parties.
There were a lot of paintings of monkeys waving bamboo sticks in the gallery.
The bullet pierced the window shattering it before missing Danny's head by mere millimeters.
He used to get confused between soldiers and shoulders, but as a military man, he now soldiers responsibility.
I was starting to worry that my pet turtle could tell what I was thinking.
She found his complete dullness interesting.
Kevin embraced his ability to be at the wrong place at the wrong time.
I hear that Nancy is very pretty.
With a single flip of the coin, his life changed forever.
As the rental car rolled to a stop on the dark road, her fear increased by the moment.
People generally approve of dogs eating cat food but not cats eating dog food.
The ice-cream trucks bring back bad memories for all of us.
The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
They desperately needed another drummer since the current one only knew how to play bongos.
Sometimes, all you need to do is completely make an ass of yourself and laugh it off to realise that life isn’t so bad after all.
There was no ice cream in the freezer, nor did they have money to go to the store.
She had some amazing news to share but nobody to share it with.
Happiness can be found in the depths of chocolate pudding.
Some bathing suits just shouldn’t be worn by some people.
She discovered van life is difficult with 2 cats and a dog.
As you consider all the possible ways to improve yourself and the world, you notice John Travolta seems fairly unhappy.
Green should have smelled more tranquil, but somehow it just tasted rotten.
Whenever he saw a red flag warning at the beach he grabbed his surfboard.
He is good at eating pickles and telling women about his emotional problems.
He swore he just saw his sushi move.
With the high wind warning
Two seats were vacant.
They ran around the corner to find that they had traveled back in time.
When motorists sped in and out of traffic, all she could think of was those in need of a transplant.
One small action would change her life, but whether it would be for better or for worse was yet to be determined.
Joyce enjoyed eating pancakes with ketchup.
He found the chocolate covered roaches quite tasty.
The thunderous roar of the jet overhead confirmed her worst fears.
I was fishing for compliments and accidentally caught a trout.
She used her own hair in the soup to give it more flavor.
Beach-combing replaced wine tasting as his new obsession.
My secretary is the only person who truly understands my stamp-collecting obsession.
Best friends are like old tomatoes and shoelaces.
Please wait outside of the house.
She thought there'd be sufficient time if she hid her watch.
The bird had a belief that it was really a groundhog.
It must be five o'clock somewhere.
The fox in the tophat whispered into the ear of the rabbit.
The light that burns twice as bright burns half as long.
Yeah, I think it's a good environment for learning English.
Stop waiting for exceptional things to just happen.
At last
The beauty of the African sunset disguised the danger lurking nearby.
She wasn't sure whether to be impressed or concerned that he folded underwear in neat little packages.
Dan took the deep dive down the rabbit hole.
She opened up her third bottle of wine of the night.
The snow-covered path was no help in finding his way out of the back-country.
His son quipped that power bars were nothing more than adult candy bars.
Everyone says they love nature until they realize how dangerous she can be.
As he waited for the shower to warm, he noticed that he could hear water change temperature.
The delicious aroma from the kitchen was ruined by cigarette smoke.
Someone I know recently combined Maple Syrup & buttered Popcorn thinking it would taste like caramel popcorn. It didn’t and they don’t recommend anyone else do it either.
I'm worried by the fact that my daughter looks to the local carpet seller as a role model.
He was an introvert that extroverts seemed to love.
The pigs were insulted that they were named hamburgers.
There are few things better in life than a slice of pie.
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.
She was too busy always talking about what she wanted to do to actually do any of it.
There should have been a time and a place, but this wasn't it.
In that instant, everything changed.
His thought process was on so many levels that he gave himself a phobia of heights.
The waves were crashing on the shore; it was a lovely sight.
The memory we used to share is no longer coherent.
Every manager should be able to recite at least ten nursery rhymes backward.
She always had an interesting perspective on why the world must be flat.
Situps are a terrible way to end your day.
Flesh-colored yoga pants were far worse than even he feared.
There's a message for you if you look up.
Gary didn't understand why Doug went upstairs to get one dollar bills when he invited him to go cow tipping.
As he dangled from the rope deep inside the crevasse
Even with the snow falling outside, she felt it appropriate to wear her bikini.
Getting up at dawn is for the birds.
As she walked along the street and looked in the gutter, she realized facemasks had become the new cigarette butts.
She found it strange that people use their cellphones to actually talk to one another.
It's never comforting to know that your fate depends on something as unpredictable as the popping of corn.
For some unfathomable reason, the response team didn't consider a lack of milk for my cereal as a proper emergency.
The efficiency we have at removing trash has made creating trash more acceptable.
He was 100% into fasting with her until he understood that meant he couldn't eat.
Nancy thought the best way to create a welcoming home was to line it with barbed wire.
We need to rent a room for our party.
He kept telling himself that one day it would all somehow make sense.
Normal activities took extraordinary amounts of concentration at the high altitude.
He learned the important lesson that a picnic at the beach on a windy day is a bad idea.
It was her first experience training a rainbow unicorn.
You realize you're not alone as you sit in your bedroom massaging your calves after a long day of playing tug-of-war with Grandpa Joe in the hospital.
It doesn't sound like that will ever be on my travel list.
The fog was so dense even a laser decided it wasn't worth the effort.
I was very proud of my nickname throughout high school but today- I couldn’t be any different to what my nickname was.
The Tsunami wave crashed against the raised houses and broke the pilings as if they were toothpicks.
He learned the hardest lesson of his life and had the scars, both physical and mental, to prove it.
25 years later, she still regretted that specific moment.
Random words in front of other random words create a random sentence.
It's much more difficult to play tennis with a bowling ball than it is to bowl with a tennis ball.
I love bacon, beer, birds, and baboons.
They're playing the piano while flying in the plane.
At that moment I was the most fearsome weasel in the entire swamp.
The shooter says goodbye to his love.
He colored deep space a soft yellow.
If you like tuna and tomato sauce, try combining the two, it’s really not as bad as it sounds.
Today I bought a raincoat and wore it on a sunny day.
He's in a boy band which doesn't make much sense for a snake.
She works two jobs to make ends meet; at least, that was her reason for not having time to join us.
Today we gathered moss for my uncle's wedding.
Warm beer on a cold day isn't my idea of fun.
It was the first time he had ever seen someone cook dinner on an elephant.
I may struggle with geography, but I'm sure I'm somewhere around here.
He was willing to find the depths of the rabbit hole in order to be with her.
The crowd yells and screams for more memes.
Going from child, to childish, to childlike is only a matter of time.
The teenage boy was accused of breaking his arm simply to get out of the test.
100 years old is such a young age if you happen to be a bristlecone pine.
She borrowed the book from him many years ago and hasn't yet returned it.
The wake behind the boat told of the past while the open sea for told life in the unknown future.
Truth in advertising and dinosaurs with skateboards have much in common.
He played the game as if his life depended on it and the truth was that it did.
She can live her life however she wants as long as she listens to what I have to say.
I want a giraffe, but I'm a turtle eating waffles.
Please tell me you don't work in a morgue.
I am happy to take your donation; any amount will be greatly appreciated.
He realized there had been several deaths on this road, but his concern rose when he saw the exact number.
This book is sure to liquefy your brain.
The teens wondered what was kept in the red shed on the far edge of the school grounds.
The secret code they created made no sense, even to them.
Bill ran from the giraffe toward the dolphin.
She couldn't understand why nobody else could see that the sky is full of cotton candy.
The sudden rainstorm washed crocodiles into the ocean.
Of course, she loves her pink bunny slippers.
When transplanting seedlings, candied teapots will make the task easier.
I honestly find her about as intimidating as a basket of kittens.
Nobody has encountered an explosive daisy and lived to tell the tale.
The two walked down the slot canyon oblivious to the sound of thunder in the distance.
I’m working on a sweet potato farm.
Two more days and all his problems would be solved.
I ate a sock because people on the Internet told me to.
It caught him off guard that space smelled of seared steak.
The stranger officiates the meal.
Don't step on the broken glass.
A dead duck doesn't fly backward.
I'm a great listener, really good with empathy vs sympathy and all that, but I hate people.
He dreamed of leaving his law firm to open a portable dog wash.
There's probably enough glass in my cupboard to build an undersea aquarium.
The newly planted trees were held up by wooden frames in hopes they could survive the next storm.
We will not allow you to bring your pet armadillo along.
The tart lemonade quenched her thirst, but not her longing.
Fluffy pink unicorns are a popular status symbol among macho men.
My dentist tells me that chewing bricks is very bad for your teeth.
It must be easy to commit crimes as a snake because you don't have to worry about leaving fingerprints.
That must be the tenth time I've been arrested for selling deep-fried cigars.
He was the only member of the club who didn't like plum pudding.
Trash covered the landscape like sprinkles do a birthday cake.
Being unacquainted with the chief raccoon was harming his prospects for promotion.
She had that tint of craziness in her soul that made her believe she could actually make a difference.
He was all business when he wore his clown suit.
He found rain fascinating yet unpleasant.
Barking dogs and screaming toddlers have the unique ability to turn friendly neighbors into cranky enemies.
The Japanese yen for commerce is still well-known.
The efficiency with which he paired the socks in the drawer was quite admirable.
We're careful about orange ping pong balls because people might think they're fruit.
The blinking lights of the antenna tower came into focus just as I heard a loud snap.
Jason lived his life by the motto, "Anything worth doing is worth doing poorly.
He knew it was going to be a bad day when he saw mountain lions roaming the streets.
The chic gangster liked to start the day with a pink scarf.
I can't believe this is the eighth time I'm smashing open my piggy bank on the same day!
For the 216th time, he said he would quit drinking soda after this last Coke.
Separation anxiety is what happens when you can't find your phone.
He looked behind the door and didn't like what he saw.
She always speaks to him in a loud voice.
He never understood why what, when, and where left out who.
Each person who knows you has a different perception of who you are.
After exploring the abandoned building, he started to believe in ghosts.
Pink horses galloped across the sea.
A song can make or ruin a person’s day if they let it get to them.
The urgent care center was flooded with patients after the news of a new deadly virus was made public.
She let the balloon float up into the air with her hopes and dreams.
He ran out of money, so he had to stop playing poker.
She could hear him in the shower singing with a joy she hoped he'd retain after she delivered the news.
Siri became confused when we reused to follow her directions.
That is an appealing treasure map that I can't read.
Henry couldn't decide if he was an auto mechanic or a priest.
He decided that the time had come to be stronger than any of the excuses he'd used until then.
He stomped on his fruit loops and thus became a cereal killer.
His confidence would have bee admirable if it wasn't for his stupidity.
There can never be too many cherries on an ice cream sundae.
Mom didn’t understand why no one else wanted a hot tub full of jello.
It's important to remember to be aware of rampaging grizzly bears.
Traveling became almost extinct during the pandemic.
Last Friday I saw a spotted striped blue worm shake hands with a legless lizard.
Waffles are always better without fire ants and fleas.
A suit of armor provides excellent sun protection on hot days.
Seek success, but always be prepared for random cats.
He waited for the stop sign to turn to a go sign.
Watching the geriatric men’s softball team brought back memories of 3 yr olds playing t-ball.
The llama couldn't resist trying the lemonade.
The rain pelted the windshield as the darkness engulfed us.
I'd always thought lightning was something only I could see.
Douglas figured the best way to succeed was to do the opposite of what he'd been doing all his life.
If eating three-egg omelets causes weight-gain, budgie eggs are a good substitute.
More RVs were seen in the storage lot than at the campground.
She did a happy dance because all of the socks from the dryer matched.
She was the type of girl that always burnt sugar to show she cared.
The underground bunker was filled with chips and candy.
It's always a good idea to seek shelter from the evil gaze of the sun.
Andy loved to sleep on a bed of nails.
He fumbled in the darkness looking for the light switch, but when he finally found it there was someone already there.
Today arrived with a crash of my car through the garage door.
It had been sixteen days since the zombies first attacked.
He had a hidden stash underneath the floorboards in the back room of the house.
The family’s excitement over going to Disneyland was crazier than she anticipated.
We have never been to Asia, nor have we visited Africa.
She was disgusted he couldn’t tell the difference between lemonade and limeade.
People keep telling me "orange" but I still prefer "pink".
The complicated school homework left the parents trying to help their kids quite confused.
Everything was going so well until I was accosted by a purple giraffe.
You have every right to be angry, but that doesn't give you the right to be mean.
It's a skateboarding penguin with a sunhat!
Flash photography is best used in full sunlight.
I covered my friend in baby oil.
The three-year-old girl ran down the beach as the kite flew behind her.
Don't piss in my garden and tell me you're trying to help my plants grow.
It took him a while to realize that everything he decided not to change, he was actually choosing.
Today is the day I'll finally know what brick tastes like.
Smoky the Bear secretly started the fires.
Edith could decide if she should paint her teeth or brush her nails.
She had a habit of taking showers in lemonade.
She advised him to come back at once.
The fish listened intently to what the frogs had to say.
She tilted her head back and let whip cream stream into her mouth while taking a bath.
He was sitting in a trash can with high street class.
When I was little I had a car door slammed shut on my hand and I still remember it quite vividly.
If you don't like toenails, you probably shouldn't look at your feet.
It isn't true that my mattress is made of cotton candy.
Iguanas were falling out of the trees.
People who insist on picking their teeth with their elbows are so annoying!
The bees decided to have a mutiny against their queen.
As he looked out the window, he saw a clown walk by.
Peter found road kill an excellent way to save money on dinner.
She wondered what his eyes were saying beneath his mirrored sunglasses.
Lucifer was surprised at the amount of life at Death Valley.
The golden retriever loved the fireworks each Fourth of July.
Please put on these earmuffs because I can't you hear.
Flying fish flew by the space station.
Three generations with six decades of life experience.
Buried deep in the snow, he hoped his batteries were fresh in his avalanche beacon.
Check back tomorrow; I will see if the book has arrived.
I just wanted to tell you I could see the love you have for your child by the way you look at her.
Sometimes I stare at a door or a wall and I wonder what is this reality, why am I alive, and what is this all about?
The bug was having an excellent day until he hit the windshield.
There is no better feeling than staring at a wall with closed eyes.
The small white buoys marked the location of hundreds of crab pots.
Getting up at dawn is for the birds.
There's a message for you if you look up.
Carol drank the blood as if she were a vampire.
Peanut butter and jelly caused the elderly lady to think about her past.
Various sea birds are elegant, but nothing is as elegant as a gliding pelican.
Car safety systems have come a long way, but he was out to prove they could be outsmarted.
Poison ivy grew through the fence they said was impenetrable.
Kevin embraced his ability to be at the wrong place at the wrong time.
Facing his greatest fear, he ate his first marshmallow.
I love bacon, beer, birds, and baboons.
Joyce enjoyed eating pancakes with ketchup.
It was obvious she was hot, sweaty, and tired.
She always speaks to him in a loud voice.
I love eating toasted cheese and tuna sandwiches.
Everything was going so well until I was accosted by a purple giraffe.
I come from a tribe of head-hunters, so I will never need a shrink.
It took me too long to realize that the ceiling hadn't been painted to look like the sky.
The golden retriever loved the fireworks each Fourth of July.
A glittering gem is not enough.
Trash covered the landscape like sprinkles do a birthday cake.
The tumbleweed refused to tumble but was more than willing to prance.
I never knew what hardship looked like until it started raining bowling balls.
He found his art never progressed when he literally used his sweat and tears.
I liked their first two albums but changed my mind after that charity gig.
I hear that Nancy is very pretty.
He had decided to accept his fate of accepting his fate.
The team members were hard to tell apart since they all wore their hair in a ponytail.
The bread dough reminded her of Santa Clause’s belly.
She works two jobs to make ends meet; at least, that was her reason for not having time to join us.
The mysterious diary records the voice.
She found his complete dullness interesting.
He was willing to find the depths of the rabbit hole in order to be with her.
People keep telling me "orange" but I still prefer "pink".
The shark-infested South Pine channel was the only way in or out.
He wondered why at 18 he was old enough to go to war, but not old enough to buy cigarettes.
He loved eating his bananas in hot dog buns.
If eating three-egg omelets causes weight-gain, budgie eggs are a good substitute.
They improved dramatically once the lead singer left.
The opportunity of a lifetime passed before him as he tried to decide between a cone or a cup.
Peter found road kill an excellent way to save money on dinner.
When he had to picnic on the beach, he purposely put sand in other people’s food.
He was sure the Devil created red sparkly glitter.
It was the scarcity that fueled his creativity.
If you don't like toenails, you probably shouldn't look at your feet.
It's much more difficult to play tennis with a bowling ball than it is to bowl with a tennis ball.
There can never be too many cherries on an ice cream sundae.
It took him a while to realize that everything he decided not to change, he was actually choosing.
She was only made the society president because she can whistle with her toes.
Nobody questions who built the pyramids in Mexico.
Always bring cinnamon buns on a deep-sea diving expedition.
He kept telling himself that one day it would all somehow make sense.
The light in his life was actually a fire burning all around him.
It was getting dark, and we weren’t there yet.
The sun had set and so had his dreams.
The hawk didn’t understand why the ground squirrels didn’t want to be his friend.
The near-death experience brought new ideas to light.
When he asked her favorite number, she answered without hesitation that it was diamonds.
The hummingbird's wings blurred while it eagerly sipped the sugar water from the feeder.
The newly planted trees were held up by wooden frames in hopes they could survive the next storm.
Your girlfriend bought your favorite cookie crisp cereal but forgot to get milk.
Not all people who wander are lost.
Now I need to ponder my existence and ask myself if I'm truly real
So long and thanks for the fish.
Homesickness became contagious in the young campers' cabin.
The wooden spoon couldn’t cut but left emotional scars.
The pet shop stocks everything you need to keep your anaconda happy.
I often see the time 11:11 or 12:34 on clocks.
Gwen had her best sleep ever on her new bed of nails.
He dreamed of eating green apples with worms.
It caught him off guard that space smelled of seared steak.
Written warnings in instruction manuals are worthless since rabbits can't read.
It was at that moment that he learned there are certain parts of the body that you should never Nair.
Erin accidentally created a new universe.
The gruff old man sat in the back of the bait shop grumbling to himself as he scooped out a handful of worms.
That was how he came to win $1 million.
They got there early, and they got really good seats.
Separation anxiety is what happens when you can't find your phone.
There's no reason a hula hoop can't also be a circus ring.
The waves were crashing on the shore; it was a lovely sight.
Today arrived with a crash of my car through the garage door.
Situps are a terrible way to end your day.
A suit of armor provides excellent sun protection on hot days.
I made myself a peanut butter sandwich as I didn't want to subsist on veggie crackers.
It's never comforting to know that your fate depends on something as unpredictable as the popping of corn.
When he encountered maize for the first time, he thought it incredibly corny.
He was so preoccupied with whether or not he could that he failed to stop to consider if he should.
In hopes of finding out the truth, he entered the one-room library.
Bill ran from the giraffe toward the dolphin.
At last
Shakespeare was a famous 17th-century diesel mechanic.
After exploring the abandoned building, he started to believe in ghosts.
She wondered what his eyes were saying beneath his mirrored sunglasses.
He was an introvert that extroverts seemed to love.
I've always wanted to go to Tajikistan, but my cat would miss me.
More RVs were seen in the storage lot than at the campground.
The old rusted farm equipment surrounded the house predicting its demise.
Today I dressed my unicorn in preparation for the race.
The tour bus was packed with teenage girls heading toward their next adventure.
We will not allow you to bring your pet armadillo along.
He barked orders at his daughters but they just stared back with amusement.
For some unfathomable reason, the response team didn't consider a lack of milk for my cereal as a proper emergency.
It isn't true that my mattress is made of cotton candy.
The water flowing down the river didn’t look that powerful from the car
The sky is clear; the stars are twinkling.
Doris enjoyed tapping her nails on the table to annoy everyone.
She is never happy until she finds something to be unhappy about; then, she is overjoyed.
Acres of almond trees lined the interstate highway which complimented the crazy driving nuts.
The fox in the tophat whispered into the ear of the rabbit.
The Great Dane looked more like a horse than a dog.
It must be easy to commit crimes as a snake because you don't have to worry about leaving fingerprints.
When transplanting seedlings, candied teapots will make the task easier.
The elderly neighborhood became enraged over the coyotes who had been blamed for the poodle’s disappearance.
He swore he just saw his sushi move.
She discovered van life is difficult with 2 cats and a dog.
A dead duck doesn't fly backward.
She wore green lipstick like a fashion icon.
100 years old is such a young age if you happen to be a bristlecone pine.
She did a happy dance because all of the socks from the dryer matched.
I am counting my calories, yet I really want dessert.
He played the game as if his life depended on it and the truth was that it did.
The view from the lighthouse excited even the most seasoned traveler.
He looked behind the door and didn't like what he saw.
It doesn't sound like that will ever be on my travel list.
Flash photography is best used in full sunlight.
I don’t respect anybody who can’t tell the difference between Pepsi and Coke.
Two seats were vacant.
He would only survive if he kept the fire going and he could hear thunder in the distance.
Behind the window was a reflection that only instilled fear.
Sometimes you have to just give up and win by cheating.
The rusty nail stood erect, angled at a 45-degree angle, just waiting for the perfect barefoot to come along.
I used to live in my neighbor's fishpond, but the aesthetic wasn't to my taste.
Grape jelly was leaking out the hole in the roof.
He decided to fake his disappearance to avoid jail.
They called out her name time and again, but were met with nothing but silence.
It was her first experience training a rainbow unicorn.
It was the first time he had ever seen someone cook dinner on an elephant.
The llama couldn't resist trying the lemonade.
He was surprised that his immense laziness was inspirational to others.
She found it strange that people use their cellphones to actually talk to one another.
My secretary is the only person who truly understands my stamp-collecting obsession.
He wondered if it could be called a beach if there was no sand.
People who insist on picking their teeth with their elbows are so annoying!
The waitress was not amused when he ordered green eggs and ham.
That is an appealing treasure map that I can't read.
It was a really good Monday for being a Saturday.
The teenage boy was accused of breaking his arm simply to get out of the test.
The underground bunker was filled with chips and candy.
There were three sphered rocks congregating in a cubed room.
He had concluded that pigs must be able to fly in Hog Heaven.
The bullet pierced the window shattering it before missing Danny's head by mere millimeters.
With the high wind warning
This is the last random sentence I will be writing and I am going to stop mid-sent
We need to rent a room for our party.
Abstraction is often one floor above you.
Don't put peanut butter on the dog's nose.
I've never seen a more beautiful brandy glass filled with wine.
She did her best to help him.
Patricia loves the sound of nails strongly pressed against the chalkboard.
Even though he thought the world was flat he didn’t see the irony of wanting to travel around the world.
Mothers spend months of their lives waiting on their children.
As she walked along the street and looked in the gutter, she realized facemasks had become the new cigarette butts.
The tart lemonade quenched her thirst, but not her longing.
I was starting to worry that my pet turtle could tell what I was thinking.
Hang on, my kittens are scratching at the bathtub and they'll upset by the lack of biscuits.
A kangaroo is really just a rabbit on steroids.
He wasn't bitter that she had moved on but from the radish.
She moved forward only because she trusted that the ending she now was going through must be followed by a new beginning.
She was disgusted he couldn’t tell the difference between lemonade and limeade.
Today I bought a raincoat and wore it on a sunny day.
The light that burns twice as bright burns half as long.
The spa attendant applied the deep cleaning mask to the gentleman’s back.
She tilted her head back and let whip cream stream into her mouth while taking a bath.
It's always a good idea to seek shelter from the evil gaze of the sun.
If I don’t like something, I’ll stay away from it.
Love is not like pizza.
Honestly, I didn't care much for the first season, so I didn't bother with the second.
He said he was not there yesterday; however, many people saw him there.
She had a habit of taking showers in lemonade.
He fumbled in the darkness looking for the light switch, but when he finally found it there was someone already there.
It's a skateboarding penguin with a sunhat!
Her hair was windswept as she rode in the black convertible.
Fluffy pink unicorns are a popular status symbol among macho men.
Sarah ran from the serial killer holding a jug of milk.
The clock within this blog and the clock on my laptop are 1 hour different from each other.
She wrote him a long letter, but he didn't read it.
He decided to live his life by the big beats manifesto.
She thought there'd be sufficient time if she hid her watch.
His son quipped that power bars were nothing more than adult candy bars.
As you consider all the possible ways to improve yourself and the world, you notice John Travolta seems fairly unhappy.
It took him a month to finish the meal.
I always dreamed about being stranded on a desert island until it actually happened.
As the rental car rolled to a stop on the dark road, her fear increased by the moment.
With a single flip of the coin, his life changed forever.
I caught my squirrel rustling through my gym bag.
Mom didn’t understand why no one else wanted a hot tub full of jello.
It was difficult for Mary to admit that most of her workout consisted of exercising poor judgment.
She had that tint of craziness in her soul that made her believe she could actually make a difference.
I want more detailed information.
Thirty years later, she still thought it was okay to put the toilet paper roll under rather than over.
They're playing the piano while flying in the plane.
Let me help you with your baggage.
He found the chocolate covered roaches quite tasty.
It's important to remember to be aware of rampaging grizzly bears.
8% of 25 is the same as 25% of 8 and one of them is much easier to do in your head.
After fighting off the alligator, Brian still had to face the anaconda.
She finally understood that grief was her love with no place for it to go.
When motorists sped in and out of traffic, all she could think of was those in need of a transplant.
He ran out of money, so he had to stop playing poker.
The worst thing about being at the top of the career ladder is that there's a long way to fall.
I may struggle with geography, but I'm sure I'm somewhere around here.
She was sad to hear that fireflies are facing extinction due to artificial light, habitat loss, and pesticides.
He realized there had been several deaths on this road, but his concern rose when he saw the exact number.
It didn't take long for Gary to detect the robbers were amateurs.
Everyone was busy, so I went to the movie alone.
It's not often you find a soggy banana on the street.
They were excited to see their first sloth.
The Guinea fowl flies through the air with all the grace of a turtle.
The tears of a clown make my lipstick run, but my shower cap is still intact.
The door swung open to reveal pink giraffes and red elephants.
She advised him to come back at once.
It isn't difficult to do a handstand if you just stand on your hands.
Tuesdays are free if you bring a gnome costume.
Plans for this weekend include turning wine into water.
He picked up trash in his spare time to dump in his neighbor's yard.
The trick to getting kids to eat anything is to put catchup on it.
There's probably enough glass in my cupboard to build an undersea aquarium.
Gary didn't understand why Doug went upstairs to get one dollar bills when he invited him to go cow tipping.
He wore the surgical mask in public not to keep from catching a virus, but to keep people away from him.
The white water rafting trip was suddenly halted by the unexpected brick wall.
Mary realized if her calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than her computer browser history.
There are over 500 starfish in the bathroom drawer.
Red is greener than purple, for sure.
Tomatoes make great weapons when water balloons aren’t available.
Karen realized the only way she was getting into heaven was to cheat.
She couldn't understand why nobody else could see that the sky is full of cotton candy.
She was too short to see over the fence.
The stranger officiates the meal.
He waited for the stop sign to turn to a go sign.
The clouds formed beautiful animals in the sky that eventually created a tornado to wreak havoc.
There should have been a time and a place, but this wasn't it.
I can't believe this is the eighth time I'm smashing open my piggy bank on the same day!
Strawberries must be the one food that doesn't go well with this brand of paint.
They desperately needed another drummer since the current one only knew how to play bongos.
They did nothing as the raccoon attacked the lady’s bag of food.
The changing of down comforters to cotton bedspreads always meant the squirrels had returned.
Never underestimate the willingness of the greedy to throw you under the bus.
Standing on one's head at job interviews forms a lasting impression.
If you spin around three times, you'll start to feel melancholy.
Improve your goldfish's physical fitness by getting him a bicycle.
He had reached the point where he was paranoid about being paranoid.
Greetings from the galaxy MACS0647-JD, or what we call home.
Charles ate the french fries knowing they would be his last meal.
He decided that the time had come to be stronger than any of the excuses he'd used until then.
His get rich quick scheme was to grow a cactus farm.
The tree fell unexpectedly short.
I'm not a party animal, but I do like animal parties.
We have never been to Asia, nor have we visited Africa.
While all her friends were positive that Mary had a sixth sense, she knew she actually had a seventh sense.
The truth is that you pay for your lifestyle in hours.
He put heat on the wound to see what would grow.
It was a slippery slope and he was willing to slide all the way to the deepest depths.
In that instant, everything changed.
When confronted with a rotary dial phone the teenager was perplexed.
The shooter says goodbye to his love.
She let the balloon float up into the air with her hopes and dreams.
He learned the important lesson that a picnic at the beach on a windy day is a bad idea.
Before he moved to the inner city, he had always believed that security complexes were psychological.
I was fishing for compliments and accidentally caught a trout.
Potato wedges probably are not best for relationships.
I checked to make sure that he was still alive.
The sign said there was road work ahead so he decided to speed up.
While on the first date he accidentally hit his head on the beam.
It's difficult to understand the lengths he'd go to remain short.
She had a difficult time owning up to her own crazy self.
On a scale from one to ten, what's your favorite flavor of random grammar?
The urgent care center was flooded with patients after the news of a new deadly virus was made public.
Shingle color was not something the couple had ever talked about.
The chic gangster liked to start the day with a pink scarf.
The ice-cream trucks bring back bad memories for all of us.
Nobody has encountered an explosive daisy and lived to tell the tale.
I know many children ask for a pony, but I wanted a bicycle with rockets strapped to it.
He felt that dining on the bridge brought romance to his relationship with his cat.
All she wanted was the answer, but she had no idea how much she would hate it.
Smoky the Bear secretly started the fires.
The rain pelted the windshield as the darkness engulfed us.
He quietly entered the museum as the super bowl started.
You have every right to be angry, but that doesn't give you the right to be mean.
Greetings from the real universe.
Please tell me you don't work in a morgue.
The manager of the fruit stand always sat and only sold vegetables.
He always wore his sunglasses at night.
The green tea and avocado smoothie turned out exactly as would be expected.
He decided water-skiing on a frozen lake wasn’t a good idea.
I’m a living furnace.
Barking dogs and screaming toddlers have the unique ability to turn friendly neighbors into cranky enemies.
Dan ate the clouds like cotton candy.
Her life in the confines of the house became her new normal.
Whenever he saw a red flag warning at the beach he grabbed his surfboard.
I am happy to take your donation; any amount will be greatly appreciated.
His confidence would have bee admirable if it wasn't for his stupidity.
The minute she landed she understood the reason this was a fly-over state.
He figured a few sticks of dynamite were easier than a fishing pole to catch fish.
Three years later, the coffin was still full of Jello.
To the surprise of everyone, the Rapture happened yesterday but it didn't quite go as expected.
There are no heroes in a punk rock band.
Nancy was proud that she ran a tight shipwreck.
Jeanne wished she has chosen the red button.
She wanted to be rescued, but only if it was Tuesday and raining.
Little Red Riding Hood decided to wear orange today.
Andy loved to sleep on a bed of nails.
The random sentence generator generated a random sentence about a random sentence.
Twin 4-month-olds slept in the shade of the palm tree while the mother tanned in the sun.
The father died during childbirth.
I'd rather be a bird than a fish.
Today we gathered moss for my uncle's wedding.
A purple pig and a green donkey flew a kite in the middle of the night and ended up sunburnt.
The busker hoped that the people passing by would throw money, but they threw tomatoes instead, so he exchanged his hat for a juicer.
He was all business when he wore his clown suit.
If my calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than my browser history.
Normal activities took extraordinary amounts of concentration at the high altitude.
The memory we used to share is no longer coherent.
The irony of the situation wasn't lost on anyone in the room.
We're careful about orange ping pong balls because people might think they're fruit.
A song can make or ruin a person’s day if they let it get to them.
He found the end of the rainbow and was surprised at what he found there.
David subscribes to the "stuff your tent into the bag" strategy over nicely folding it.
He enjoys practicing his ballet in the bathroom.
Everyone pretends to like wheat until you mention barley.
Too many prisons have become early coffins.
In the end, he realized he could see sound and hear words.
If any cop asks you where you were, just say you were visiting Kansas.
Waffles are always better without fire ants and fleas.
He went on a whiskey diet and immediately lost three days.
Swim at your own risk was taken as a challenge for the group of Kansas City college students.
The lake is a long way from here.
Sometimes, all you need to do is completely make an ass of yourself and laugh it off to realise that life isn’t so bad after all.
Thigh-high in the water, the fisherman’s hope for dinner soon turned to despair.
She insisted that cleaning out your closet was the key to good driving.
Pair your designer cowboy hat with scuba gear for a memorable occasion.
Instead of a bachelorette party
The gloves protect my feet from excess work.
It's never been my responsibility to glaze the donuts.
The old apple revels in its authority.
She looked into the mirror and saw another person.
Boulders lined the side of the road foretelling what could come next.
Pantyhose and heels are an interesting choice of attire for the beach.
Although it wasn't a pot of gold, Nancy was still enthralled at what she found at the end of the rainbow.
Jenny made the announcement that her baby was an alien.
When I cook spaghetti, I like to boil it a few minutes past al dente so the noodles are super slippery.
I was offended by the suggestion that my baby brother was a jewel thief.
Peanuts don't grow on trees, but cashews do.
The thick foliage and intertwined vines made the hike nearly impossible.
I purchased a baby clown from the Russian terrorist black market.
She saw the brake lights, but not in time.
He went back to the video to see what had been recorded and was shocked at what he saw.
Be careful with that butter knife.
He poured rocks in the dungeon of his mind.
The balloons floated away along with all my hopes and dreams.
Karen believed all traffic laws should be obeyed by all except herself.
It was always dangerous to drive with him since he insisted the safety cones were a slalom course.
The crowd yells and screams for more memes.
Courage and stupidity were all he had.
The toddler’s endless tantrum caused the entire plane anxiety.
Douglas figured the best way to succeed was to do the opposite of what he'd been doing all his life.
The anaconda was the greatest criminal mastermind in this part of the neighborhood.
It had been sixteen days since the zombies first attacked.
Seek success, but always be prepared for random cats.
Going from child, to childish, to childlike is only a matter of time.
He decided to count all the sand on the beach as a hobby.
I want to buy a onesie… but know it won’t suit me.
Jason lived his life by the motto, "Anything worth doing is worth doing poorly.
It's not possible to convince a monkey to give you a banana by promising it infinite bananas when they die.
As he waited for the shower to warm, he noticed that he could hear water change temperature.
Sometimes I stare at a door or a wall and I wonder what is this reality, why am I alive, and what is this all about?
Yeah, I think it's a good environment for learning English.
Don't piss in my garden and tell me you're trying to help my plants grow.
Everybody should read Chaucer to improve their everyday vocabulary.
He was the type of guy who liked Christmas lights on his house in the middle of July.
There's a growing trend among teenagers of using frisbees as go-cart wheels.
All you need to do is pick up the pen and begin.
The reservoir water level continued to lower while we enjoyed our long shower.
Stop waiting for exceptional things to just happen.
Jason didn’t understand why his parents wouldn’t let him sell his little sister at the garage sale.
I would be delighted if the sea were full of cucumber juice.
She looked at the masterpiece hanging in the museum but all she could think is that her five-year-old could do better.
She felt that chill that makes the hairs on the back of your neck when he walked into the room.
She opened up her third bottle of wine of the night.
You realize you're not alone as you sit in your bedroom massaging your calves after a long day of playing tug-of-war with Grandpa Joe in the hospital.
Weather is not trivial - it's especially important when you're standing in it.
She only paints with bold colors; she does not like pastels.
You should never take advice from someone who thinks red paint dries quicker than blue paint.
The efficiency we have at removing trash has made creating trash more acceptable.
I am never at home on Sundays.
The bird had a belief that it was really a groundhog.
He learned the hardest lesson of his life and had the scars, both physical and mental, to prove it.
Lets all be unique together until we realise we are all the same.
Happiness can be found in the depths of chocolate pudding.
I'd always thought lightning was something only I could see.
He set out for a short walk, but now all he could see were mangroves and water were for miles.
Tomorrow will bring something new, so leave today as a memory.
He ended up burning his fingers poking someone else's fire.
The furnace repairman indicated the heating system was acting as an air conditioner.
Edith could decide if she should paint her teeth or brush her nails.
Traveling became almost extinct during the pandemic.
The fish dreamed of escaping the fishbowl and into the toilet where he saw his friend go.
We have a lot of rain in June.
Nancy thought the best way to create a welcoming home was to line it with barbed wire.
He is good at eating pickles and telling women about his emotional problems.
Iron pyrite is the most foolish of all minerals.
Patricia found the meaning of life in a bowl of Cheerios.
The glacier came alive as the climbers hiked closer.
Joe made the sugar cookies; Susan decorated them.
The thunderous roar of the jet overhead confirmed her worst fears.
Her daily goal was to improve on yesterday.
Being unacquainted with the chief raccoon was harming his prospects for promotion.
The beach was crowded with snow leopards.
The murder hornet was disappointed by the preconceived ideas people had of him.
He appeared to be confusingly perplexed.
Had he known what was going to happen, he would have never stepped into the shower.
I'll have you know I've written over fifty novels
I met an interesting turtle while the song on the radio blasted away.
She was amazed by the large chunks of ice washing up on the beach.
I’m working on a sweet potato farm.
The doll spun around in circles in hopes of coming alive.
Just go ahead and press that button.
The beauty of the sunset was obscured by the industrial cranes.
Three generations with six decades of life experience.
He invested some skill points in Charisma and Strength.
The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
My Mum tries to be cool by saying that she likes all the same things that I do.
The Japanese yen for commerce is still well-known.
The blue parrot drove by the hitchhiking mongoose.
Nothing seemed out of place except the washing machine in the bar.
The complicated school homework left the parents trying to help their kids quite confused.
There was no ice cream in the freezer, nor did they have money to go to the store.
Please wait outside of the house.
Dan took the deep dive down the rabbit hole.
Lucifer was surprised at the amount of life at Death Valley.
He stomped on his fruit loops and thus became a cereal killer.
He watched the dancing piglets with panda bear tummies in the swimming pool.
Truth in advertising and dinosaurs with skateboards have much in common.
One small action would change her life, but whether it would be for better or for worse was yet to be determined.
There have been days when I wished to be separated from my body, but today wasn’t one of those days.
The two walked down the slot canyon oblivious to the sound of thunder in the distance.
I currently have 4 windows open up… and I don’t know why.
People generally approve of dogs eating cat food but not cats eating dog food.
He took one look at what was under the table and noped the hell out of there.
Her scream silenced the rowdy teenagers.
Combines are no longer just for farms.
Wisdom is easily acquired when hiding under the bed with a saucepan on your head.
Mary plays the piano.
If you really strain your ears, you can just about hear the sound of no one giving a damn.
Two more days and all his problems would be solved.
He had a vague sense that trees gave birth to dinosaurs.
I thought red would have felt warmer in summer but I didn't think about the equator.
The sight of his goatee made me want to run and hide under my sister-in-law's bed.
I am my aunt's sister's daughter.
She lived on Monkey Jungle Road and that seemed to explain all of her strangeness.
Giving directions that the mountains are to the west only works when you can see them.
Pink horses galloped across the sea.
She had convinced her kids that any mushroom found on the ground would kill them if they touched it.
It didn't make sense unless you had the power to eat colors.
The overpass went under the highway and into a secret world.
Harrold felt confident that nobody would ever suspect his spy pigeon.
She couldn't decide of the glass was half empty or half full so she drank it.
The fish listened intently to what the frogs had to say.
Buried deep in the snow, he hoped his batteries were fresh in his avalanche beacon.
The blinking lights of the antenna tower came into focus just as I heard a loud snap.
The river stole the gods.
She cried diamonds.
The paintbrush was angry at the color the artist chose to use.
Pat ordered a ghost pepper pie.
He shaved the peach to prove a point.
She learned that water bottles are no longer just to hold liquid, but they're also status symbols.
I became paranoid that the school of jellyfish was spying on me.
As he looked out the window, he saw a clown walk by.
As the asteroid hurtled toward earth, Becky was upset her dentist appointment had been canceled.
There aren't enough towels in the world to stop the sewage flowing from his mouth.
She borrowed the book from him many years ago and hasn't yet returned it.
Best friends are like old tomatoes and shoelaces.
It would have been a better night if the guys next to us weren't in the splash zone.
I ate a sock because people on the Internet told me to.
David proudly graduated from high school top of his class at age 97.
I've traveled all around Africa and still haven't found the gnu who stole my scarf.
He never understood why what, when, and where left out who.
Cats are good pets, for they are clean and are not noisy.
Most shark attacks occur about 10 feet from the beach since that's where the people are.
You've been eyeing me all day and waiting for your move like a lion stalking a gazelle in a savannah.
The elephant didn't want to talk about the person in the room.
She was the type of girl who wanted to live in a pink house.
He colored deep space a soft yellow.
Flesh-colored yoga pants were far worse than even he feared.
The dead trees waited to be ignited by the smallest spark and seek their revenge.
He didn't heed the warning and it had turned out surprisingly well.
They say people remember important moments in their life well, yet no one even remembers their own birth.
He hated that he loved what she hated about hate.
I received a heavy fine but it failed to crush my spirit.
They throw cabbage that turns your brain into emotional baggage.
There were a lot of paintings of monkeys waving bamboo sticks in the gallery.
As he entered the church he could hear the soft voice of someone whispering into a cell phone.
He had unknowingly taken up sleepwalking as a nighttime hobby.
The most exciting eureka moment I've had was when I realized that the instructions on food packets were just guidelines.
His mind was blown that there was nothing in space except space itself.
He didn’t want to go to the dentist, yet he went anyway.
A quiet house is nice until you are ordered to stay in it for months.
The ants enjoyed the barbecue more than the family.
Dolores wouldn't have eaten the meal if she had known what it actually was.
The secret ingredient to his wonderful life was crime.
He strives to keep the best lawn in the neighborhood.
He embraced his new life as an eggplant.
Siri became confused when we reused to follow her directions.
He's in a boy band which doesn't make much sense for a snake.
Jerry liked to look at paintings while eating garlic ice cream.
his seven-layer cake only had six layers.
The sudden rainstorm washed crocodiles into the ocean.
He stepped gingerly onto the bridge knowing that enchantment awaited on the other side.
Don't step on the broken glass.
The fact that there's a stairway to heaven and a highway to hell explains life well.
The swirled lollipop had issues with the pop rock candy.
She wasn't sure whether to be impressed or concerned that he folded underwear in neat little packages.
Baby wipes are made of chocolate stardust.
I'm worried by the fact that my daughter looks to the local carpet seller as a role model.
Check back tomorrow; I will see if the book has arrived.
On each full moon
It must be five o'clock somewhere.
Sixty-Four comes asking for bread.
The bees decided to have a mutiny against their queen.
Henry couldn't decide if he was an auto mechanic or a priest.
I like to leave work after my eight-hour tea-break.
Someone I know recently combined Maple Syrup & buttered Popcorn thinking it would taste like caramel popcorn. It didn’t and they don’t recommend anyone else do it either.
Writing a list of random sentences is harder than I initially thought it would be.
Art doesn't have to be intentional.
There's an art to getting your way, and spitting olive pits across the table isn't it.
Just because the water is red doesn't mean you can't drink it.
There are few things better in life than a slice of pie.
She hadn't had her cup of coffee, and that made things all the worse.
It dawned on her that others could make her happier, but only she could make herself happy.
He was 100% into fasting with her until he understood that meant he couldn't eat.
They decided to plant an orchard of cotton candy.
The beauty of the African sunset disguised the danger lurking nearby.
My uncle's favorite pastime was building cars out of noodles.
I cheated while playing the darts tournament by using a longbow.
They looked up at the sky and saw a million stars.
I'm a great listener, really good with empathy vs sympathy and all that, but I hate people.
Please put on these earmuffs because I can't you hear.
Having no hair made him look even hairier.
Martha came to the conclusion that shake weights are a great gift for any occasion.
Choosing to do nothing is still a choice, after all.
He was the only member of the club who didn't like plum pudding.
Beach-combing replaced wine tasting as his new obsession.
He is no James Bond; his name is Roger Moore.
I want a giraffe, but I'm a turtle eating waffles.
She had some amazing news to share but nobody to share it with.
Flying fish flew by the space station.
Toddlers feeding raccoons surprised even the seasoned park ranger.
At that moment he wasn't listening to music, he was living an experience.
Some bathing suits just shouldn’t be worn by some people.
The snow-covered path was no help in finding his way out of the back-country.
If you like tuna and tomato sauce, try combining the two, it’s really not as bad as it sounds.
The tattered work gloves speak of the many hours of hard labor he endured throughout his life.
Chocolate covered crickets were his favorite snack.
As the years pass by, we all know owners look more and more like their dogs.
There was no telling what thoughts would come from the machine.
The wake behind the boat told of the past while the open sea for told life in the unknown future.
All they could see was the blue water surrounding their sailboat.
Mr. Montoya knows the way to the bakery even though he's never been there.
This book is sure to liquefy your brain.
That must be the tenth time I've been arrested for selling deep-fried cigars.
As time wore on, simple dog commands turned into full paragraphs explaining why the dog couldn’t do something.
You'll see the rainbow bridge after it rains cats and dogs.
They finished building the road they knew no one would ever use.
He uses onomatopoeia as a weapon of mental destruction.
After coating myself in vegetable oil I found my success rate skyrocketed.
His thought process was on so many levels that he gave himself a phobia of heights.
They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
Warm beer on a cold day isn't my idea of fun.
This made him feel like an old-style rootbeer float smells.
He had accidentally hacked into his company's server.
He had a hidden stash underneath the floorboards in the back room of the house.
She wanted a pet platypus but ended up getting a duck and a ferret instead.
You have no right to call yourself creative until you look at a trowel and think that it would make a great lockpick.
The fence was confused about whether it was supposed to keep things in or keep things out.
He drank life before spitting it out.
The skeleton had skeletons of his own in the closet.
The estate agent quickly marked out his territory on the dance floor.
He walked into the basement with the horror movie from the night before playing in his head.
He dreamed of leaving his law firm to open a portable dog wash.
Imagine his surprise when he discovered that the safe was full of pudding.
Sometimes it is better to just walk away from things and go back to them later when you’re in a better frame of mind.
Malls are great places to shop; I can find everything I need under one roof.
For the 216th time, he said he would quit drinking soda after this last Coke.
Watching the geriatric men’s softball team brought back memories of 3 yr olds playing t-ball.
Random words in front of other random words create a random sentence.
Green should have smelled more tranquil, but somehow it just tasted rotten.
For oil spots on the floor, nothing beats parking a motorbike in the lounge.
She had the gift of being able to paint songs.
He didn't understand why the bird wanted to ride the bicycle.
She could hear him in the shower singing with a joy she hoped he'd retain after she delivered the news.
You bite up because of your lower jaw.
I really want to go to work, but I am too sick to drive.
Her fragrance of choice was fresh garlic.
The family’s excitement over going to Disneyland was crazier than she anticipated.
The best part of marriage is animal crackers with peanut butter.
I trust everything that's written in purple ink.
Last Friday I saw a spotted striped blue worm shake hands with a legless lizard.
Nobody loves a pig wearing lipstick.
She folded her handkerchief neatly.
Despite multiple complications and her near-death experience
The father handed each child a roadmap at the beginning of the 2-day road trip and explained it was so they could find their way home.
The bug was having an excellent day until he hit the windshield.
I covered my friend in baby oil.
He was sitting in a trash can with high street class.
Today I heard something new and unmemorable.
Nancy decided to make the porta-potty her home.
Nothing is as cautiously cuddly as a pet porcupine.
She was the type of girl that always burnt sugar to show she cared.
I think I will buy the red car, or I will lease the blue one.
She says she has the ability to hear the soundtrack of your life.
She traveled because it cost the same as therapy and was a lot more enjoyable.
The miniature pet elephant became the envy of the neighborhood.
He excelled at firing people nicely.
We should play with legos at camp.
Cursive writing is the best way to build a race track.
Garlic ice-cream was her favorite.
There was coal in his stocking and he was thrilled.
I only enjoy window shopping when the windows are transparent.
He was disappointed when he found the beach to be so sandy and the sun so sunny.
The Tsunami wave crashed against the raised houses and broke the pilings as if they were toothpicks.
The knives were out and she was sharpening hers.
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.
The sunblock was handed to the girl before practice, but the burned skin was proof she did not apply it.
I just wanted to tell you I could see the love you have for your child by the way you look at her.
The fog was so dense even a laser decided it wasn't worth the effort.
She was too busy always talking about what she wanted to do to actually do any of it.
The child’s favorite Christmas gift was the large box her father’s lawnmower came in.
I had a friend in high school named Rick Shaw, but he was fairly useless as a mode of transport.
Everyone says they love nature until they realize how dangerous she can be.
I used to practice weaving with spaghetti three hours a day but stopped because I didn't want to die alone.
A good example of a useful vegetable is medicinal rhubarb.
The virus had powers none of us knew existed.
You can't compare apples and oranges, but what about bananas and plantains?
She can live her life however she wants as long as she listens to what I have to say.
He turned in the research paper on Friday; otherwise, he would have not passed the class.
The pigs were insulted that they were named hamburgers.
The best key lime pie is still up for debate.
His ultimate dream fantasy consisted of being content and sleeping eight hours in a row.
He told us a very exciting adventure story.
Everyone was curious about the large white blimp that appeared overnight.
I would have gotten the promotion, but my attendance wasn’t good enough.
Blue sounded too cold at the time and yet it seemed to work for gin.
The book is in front of the table.
Nudist colonies shun fig-leaf couture.
The fifty mannequin heads floating in the pool kind of freaked them out.
He liked to play with words in the bathtub.
They say that dogs are man's best friend, but this cat was setting out to sabotage that theory.
There's a reason that roses have thorns.
He wondered if she would appreciate his toenail collection.
He found rain fascinating yet unpleasant.
Of course, she loves her pink bunny slippers.
The teens wondered what was kept in the red shed on the far edge of the school grounds.
We have young kids who often walk into our room at night for various reasons including clowns in the closet.
The secret code they created made no sense, even to them.
The lyrics of the song sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard.
My dentist tells me that chewing bricks is very bad for your teeth.
When nobody is around, the trees gossip about the people who have walked under them.
The body piercing didn't go exactly as he expected.
Every manager should be able to recite at least ten nursery rhymes backward.
The door slammed on the watermelon.
Lightning Paradise was the local hangout joint where the group usually ended up spending the night.
The hand sanitizer was actually clear glue.
Iguanas were falling out of the trees.
Each person who knows you has a different perception of who you are.
The efficiency with which he paired the socks in the drawer was quite admirable.
Even with the snow falling outside, she felt it appropriate to wear her bikini.
The delicious aroma from the kitchen was ruined by cigarette smoke.
He created a pig burger out of beef.
Joe discovered that traffic cones make excellent megaphones.
He spiked his hair green to support his iguana.
Eating eggs on Thursday for choir practice was recommended.
Today is the day I'll finally know what brick tastes like.
You're unsure whether or not to trust him, but very thankful that you wore a turtle neck.
The stench from the feedlot permeated the car despite having the air conditioning on recycled air.
The tortoise jumped into the lake with dreams of becoming a sea turtle.
No matter how beautiful the sunset, it saddened her knowing she was one day older.
I honestly find her about as intimidating as a basket of kittens.
She used her own hair in the soup to give it more flavor.
The heat
When money was tight, he'd get his lunch money from the local wishing well.
The three-year-old girl ran down the beach as the kite flew behind her.
He knew it was going to be a bad day when he saw mountain lions roaming the streets.
At that moment she realized she had a sixth sense.
As he dangled from the rope deep inside the crevasse
This is a Japanese doll.
Despite what your teacher may have told you, there is a wrong way to wield a lasso.
She saw no irony asking me to change but wanting me to accept her for who she is.
He had a wall full of masks so she could wear a different face every day.
Their argument could be heard across the parking lot.
I'm confused: when people ask me what's up, and I point, they groan.
Purple is the best city in the forest.
The group quickly understood that toxic waste was the most effective barrier to use against the zombies.
She always had an interesting perspective on why the world must be flat.
You're good at English when you know the difference between a man eating chicken and a man-eating chicken.
She did not cheat on the test, for it was not the right thing to do.
When I was little I had a car door slammed shut on my hand and I still remember it quite vividly.
He found a leprechaun in his walnut shell.
There were white out conditions in the town; subsequently, the roads were impassable.
Jim liked driving around town with his hazard lights on.
At that moment I was the most fearsome weasel in the entire swamp.
My biggest joy is roasting almonds while stalking prey.
He used to get confused between soldiers and shoulders, but as a military man, he now soldiers responsibility.
They ran around the corner to find that they had traveled back in time.
Rock music approaches at high velocity.
25 years later, she still regretted that specific moment.
The external scars tell only part of the story.
When she didn’t like a guy who was trying to pick her up, she started using sign language.
I was very proud of my nickname throughout high school but today- I couldn’t be any different to what my nickname was.
It turns out you don't need all that stuff you insisted you did.
Italy is my favorite country; in fact, I plan to spend two weeks there next year.
Excitement replaced fear until the final moment.
Tom got a small piece of pie.
It was the best sandcastle he had ever seen.
Hit me with your pet shark!
Facing his greatest fear, he ate his first marshmallow.
He ended up burning his fingers poking someone else's fire.
He put heat on the wound to see what would grow.
He strives to keep the best lawn in the neighborhood.
The tortoise jumped into the lake with dreams of becoming a sea turtle.
On a scale from one to ten, what's your favorite flavor of random grammar?
Let me help you with your baggage.
Baby wipes are made of chocolate stardust.
If eating three-egg omelets causes weight-gain, budgie eggs are a good substitute.
The balloons floated away along with all my hopes and dreams.
A good example of a useful vegetable is medicinal rhubarb.
She was too busy always talking about what she wanted to do to actually do any of it.
Sometimes it is better to just walk away from things and go back to them later when you’re in a better frame of mind.
In that instant, everything changed.
The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
He had a vague sense that trees gave birth to dinosaurs.
The worst thing about being at the top of the career ladder is that there's a long way to fall.
Siri became confused when we reused to follow her directions.
It caught him off guard that space smelled of seared steak.
Potato wedges probably are not best for relationships.
We have never been to Asia, nor have we visited Africa.
Nothing is as cautiously cuddly as a pet porcupine.
He had decided to accept his fate of accepting his fate.
He played the game as if his life depended on it and the truth was that it did.
She discovered van life is difficult with 2 cats and a dog.
Although it wasn't a pot of gold, Nancy was still enthralled at what she found at the end of the rainbow.
I would be delighted if the sea were full of cucumber juice.
The irony of the situation wasn't lost on anyone in the room.
100 years old is such a young age if you happen to be a bristlecone pine.
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.
The child’s favorite Christmas gift was the large box her father’s lawnmower came in.
Despite what your teacher may have told you, there is a wrong way to wield a lasso.
Pink horses galloped across the sea.
He decided water-skiing on a frozen lake wasn’t a good idea.
Everything was going so well until I was accosted by a purple giraffe.
The golden retriever loved the fireworks each Fourth of July.
Two more days and all his problems would be solved.
Thigh-high in the water, the fisherman’s hope for dinner soon turned to despair.
The blue parrot drove by the hitchhiking mongoose.
When confronted with a rotary dial phone the teenager was perplexed.
She hadn't had her cup of coffee, and that made things all the worse.
A glittering gem is not enough.
You've been eyeing me all day and waiting for your move like a lion stalking a gazelle in a savannah.
The thick foliage and intertwined vines made the hike nearly impossible.
If any cop asks you where you were, just say you were visiting Kansas.
Plans for this weekend include turning wine into water.
Love is not like pizza.
I'd always thought lightning was something only I could see.
Carol drank the blood as if she were a vampire.
Shakespeare was a famous 17th-century diesel mechanic.
The fish dreamed of escaping the fishbowl and into the toilet where he saw his friend go.
People generally approve of dogs eating cat food but not cats eating dog food.
His ultimate dream fantasy consisted of being content and sleeping eight hours in a row.
I caught my squirrel rustling through my gym bag.
It must be five o'clock somewhere.
The sun had set and so had his dreams.
Separation anxiety is what happens when you can't find your phone.
The ice-cream trucks bring back bad memories for all of us.
Twin 4-month-olds slept in the shade of the palm tree while the mother tanned in the sun.
Flying fish flew by the space station.
She had a difficult time owning up to her own crazy self.
The bread dough reminded her of Santa Clause’s belly.
The waitress was not amused when he ordered green eggs and ham.
There are few things better in life than a slice of pie.
Writing a list of random sentences is harder than I initially thought it would be.
Beach-combing replaced wine tasting as his new obsession.
Joe discovered that traffic cones make excellent megaphones.
She was too short to see over the fence.
He learned the hardest lesson of his life and had the scars, both physical and mental, to prove it.
The white water rafting trip was suddenly halted by the unexpected brick wall.
The efficiency we have at removing trash has made creating trash more acceptable.
The sudden rainstorm washed crocodiles into the ocean.
He kept telling himself that one day it would all somehow make sense.
He decided to fake his disappearance to avoid jail.
Jeanne wished she has chosen the red button.
Nobody questions who built the pyramids in Mexico.
You can't compare apples and oranges, but what about bananas and plantains?
The gloves protect my feet from excess work.
The beauty of the African sunset disguised the danger lurking nearby.
I want to buy a onesie… but know it won’t suit me.
The snow-covered path was no help in finding his way out of the back-country.
It turns out you don't need all that stuff you insisted you did.
He excelled at firing people nicely.
He quietly entered the museum as the super bowl started.
He found a leprechaun in his walnut shell.
The dead trees waited to be ignited by the smallest spark and seek their revenge.
Poison ivy grew through the fence they said was impenetrable.
He is no James Bond; his name is Roger Moore.
Rock music approaches at high velocity.
Someone I know recently combined Maple Syrup & buttered Popcorn thinking it would taste like caramel popcorn. It didn’t and they don’t recommend anyone else do it either.
She found his complete dullness interesting.
Garlic ice-cream was her favorite.
Little Red Riding Hood decided to wear orange today.
Sometimes you have to just give up and win by cheating.
The old apple revels in its authority.
The gruff old man sat in the back of the bait shop grumbling to himself as he scooped out a handful of worms.
She borrowed the book from him many years ago and hasn't yet returned it.
This is the last random sentence I will be writing and I am going to stop mid-sent
Situps are a terrible way to end your day.
That is an appealing treasure map that I can't read.
He had a hidden stash underneath the floorboards in the back room of the house.
The memory we used to share is no longer coherent.
There have been days when I wished to be separated from my body, but today wasn’t one of those days.
Now I need to ponder my existence and ask myself if I'm truly real
It was at that moment that he learned there are certain parts of the body that you should never Nair.
He learned the important lesson that a picnic at the beach on a windy day is a bad idea.
He swore he just saw his sushi move.
Everybody should read Chaucer to improve their everyday vocabulary.
The stranger officiates the meal.
They got there early, and they got really good seats.
So long and thanks for the fish.
The fog was so dense even a laser decided it wasn't worth the effort.
He had a wall full of masks so she could wear a different face every day.
She had that tint of craziness in her soul that made her believe she could actually make a difference.
One small action would change her life, but whether it would be for better or for worse was yet to be determined.
Before he moved to the inner city, he had always believed that security complexes were psychological.
We should play with legos at camp.
Combines are no longer just for farms.
The elderly neighborhood became enraged over the coyotes who had been blamed for the poodle’s disappearance.
I made myself a peanut butter sandwich as I didn't want to subsist on veggie crackers.
After exploring the abandoned building, he started to believe in ghosts.
The most exciting eureka moment I've had was when I realized that the instructions on food packets were just guidelines.
Jason lived his life by the motto, "Anything worth doing is worth doing poorly.
That was how he came to win $1 million.
He set out for a short walk, but now all he could see were mangroves and water were for miles.
After fighting off the alligator, Brian still had to face the anaconda.
The tree fell unexpectedly short.
A song can make or ruin a person’s day if they let it get to them.
Getting up at dawn is for the birds.
You should never take advice from someone who thinks red paint dries quicker than blue paint.
The clock within this blog and the clock on my laptop are 1 hour different from each other.
She wore green lipstick like a fashion icon.
The crowd yells and screams for more memes.
Today I bought a raincoat and wore it on a sunny day.
Wisdom is easily acquired when hiding under the bed with a saucepan on your head.
He found his art never progressed when he literally used his sweat and tears.
There was coal in his stocking and he was thrilled.
He decided to live his life by the big beats manifesto.
Each person who knows you has a different perception of who you are.
The blinking lights of the antenna tower came into focus just as I heard a loud snap.
The bird had a belief that it was really a groundhog.
The wake behind the boat told of the past while the open sea for told life in the unknown future.
Thirty years later, she still thought it was okay to put the toilet paper roll under rather than over.
The tumbleweed refused to tumble but was more than willing to prance.
Instead of a bachelorette party
You're unsure whether or not to trust him, but very thankful that you wore a turtle neck.
Your girlfriend bought your favorite cookie crisp cereal but forgot to get milk.
I really want to go to work, but I am too sick to drive.
Greetings from the galaxy MACS0647-JD, or what we call home.
She always had an interesting perspective on why the world must be flat.
She wanted a pet platypus but ended up getting a duck and a ferret instead.
Despite multiple complications and her near-death experience
Patricia found the meaning of life in a bowl of Cheerios.
Peanut butter and jelly caused the elderly lady to think about her past.
They desperately needed another drummer since the current one only knew how to play bongos.
She can live her life however she wants as long as she listens to what I have to say.
Iron pyrite is the most foolish of all minerals.
Doris enjoyed tapping her nails on the table to annoy everyone.
He barked orders at his daughters but they just stared back with amusement.
No matter how beautiful the sunset, it saddened her knowing she was one day older.
I've never seen a more beautiful brandy glass filled with wine.
The two walked down the slot canyon oblivious to the sound of thunder in the distance.
He realized there had been several deaths on this road, but his concern rose when he saw the exact number.
He figured a few sticks of dynamite were easier than a fishing pole to catch fish.
Cursive writing is the best way to build a race track.
When I cook spaghetti, I like to boil it a few minutes past al dente so the noodles are super slippery.
Lucifer was surprised at the amount of life at Death Valley.
Everyone was curious about the large white blimp that appeared overnight.
He fumbled in the darkness looking for the light switch, but when he finally found it there was someone already there.
Honestly, I didn't care much for the first season, so I didn't bother with the second.
He picked up trash in his spare time to dump in his neighbor's yard.
The knives were out and she was sharpening hers.
Harrold felt confident that nobody would ever suspect his spy pigeon.
On each full moon
Red is greener than purple, for sure.
This made him feel like an old-style rootbeer float smells.
Fluffy pink unicorns are a popular status symbol among macho men.
He was willing to find the depths of the rabbit hole in order to be with her.
There are no heroes in a punk rock band.
He is good at eating pickles and telling women about his emotional problems.
The delicious aroma from the kitchen was ruined by cigarette smoke.
He had concluded that pigs must be able to fly in Hog Heaven.
I always dreamed about being stranded on a desert island until it actually happened.
He took one look at what was under the table and noped the hell out of there.
Sometimes I stare at a door or a wall and I wonder what is this reality, why am I alive, and what is this all about?
I covered my friend in baby oil.
They looked up at the sky and saw a million stars.
The doll spun around in circles in hopes of coming alive.
Having no hair made him look even hairier.
The truth is that you pay for your lifestyle in hours.
The body piercing didn't go exactly as he expected.
Going from child, to childish, to childlike is only a matter of time.
I'm worried by the fact that my daughter looks to the local carpet seller as a role model.
Pat ordered a ghost pepper pie.
The shooter says goodbye to his love.
Their argument could be heard across the parking lot.
The fifty mannequin heads floating in the pool kind of freaked them out.
The Tsunami wave crashed against the raised houses and broke the pilings as if they were toothpicks.
As the asteroid hurtled toward earth, Becky was upset her dentist appointment had been canceled.
He was an introvert that extroverts seemed to love.
The tour bus was packed with teenage girls heading toward their next adventure.
She used her own hair in the soup to give it more flavor.
If you don't like toenails, you probably shouldn't look at your feet.
His son quipped that power bars were nothing more than adult candy bars.
She found it strange that people use their cellphones to actually talk to one another.
Giving directions that the mountains are to the west only works when you can see them.
The best part of marriage is animal crackers with peanut butter.
Last Friday I saw a spotted striped blue worm shake hands with a legless lizard.
It was her first experience training a rainbow unicorn.
The heat
It was a slippery slope and he was willing to slide all the way to the deepest depths.
Sometimes, all you need to do is completely make an ass of yourself and laugh it off to realise that life isn’t so bad after all.
The Japanese yen for commerce is still well-known.
Don't put peanut butter on the dog's nose.
Mary realized if her calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than her computer browser history.
I used to live in my neighbor's fishpond, but the aesthetic wasn't to my taste.
He dreamed of leaving his law firm to open a portable dog wash.
For some unfathomable reason, the response team didn't consider a lack of milk for my cereal as a proper emergency.
Yeah, I think it's a good environment for learning English.
Gwen had her best sleep ever on her new bed of nails.
I trust everything that's written in purple ink.
He had accidentally hacked into his company's server.
Patricia loves the sound of nails strongly pressed against the chalkboard.
25 years later, she still regretted that specific moment.
His confidence would have bee admirable if it wasn't for his stupidity.
He told us a very exciting adventure story.
The waves were crashing on the shore; it was a lovely sight.
Tom got a small piece of pie.
They say people remember important moments in their life well, yet no one even remembers their own birth.
He said he was not there yesterday; however, many people saw him there.
She wanted to be rescued, but only if it was Tuesday and raining.
A suit of armor provides excellent sun protection on hot days.
I can't believe this is the eighth time I'm smashing open my piggy bank on the same day!
Hang on, my kittens are scratching at the bathtub and they'll upset by the lack of biscuits.
Don't piss in my garden and tell me you're trying to help my plants grow.
Choosing to do nothing is still a choice, after all.
He invested some skill points in Charisma and Strength.
He was surprised that his immense laziness was inspirational to others.
I was offended by the suggestion that my baby brother was a jewel thief.
He shaved the peach to prove a point.
It would have been a better night if the guys next to us weren't in the splash zone.
The overpass went under the highway and into a secret world.
The llama couldn't resist trying the lemonade.
Joe made the sugar cookies; Susan decorated them.
The teens wondered what was kept in the red shed on the far edge of the school grounds.
I thought red would have felt warmer in summer but I didn't think about the equator.
Today I heard something new and unmemorable.
She insisted that cleaning out your closet was the key to good driving.
The furnace repairman indicated the heating system was acting as an air conditioner.
He wondered if she would appreciate his toenail collection.
I liked their first two albums but changed my mind after that charity gig.
She moved forward only because she trusted that the ending she now was going through must be followed by a new beginning.
As time wore on, simple dog commands turned into full paragraphs explaining why the dog couldn’t do something.
At that moment I was the most fearsome weasel in the entire swamp.
She always speaks to him in a loud voice.
Swim at your own risk was taken as a challenge for the group of Kansas City college students.
With the high wind warning
Jason didn’t understand why his parents wouldn’t let him sell his little sister at the garage sale.
You have every right to be angry, but that doesn't give you the right to be mean.
The father died during childbirth.
While on the first date he accidentally hit his head on the beam.
They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
It's not possible to convince a monkey to give you a banana by promising it infinite bananas when they die.
The team members were hard to tell apart since they all wore their hair in a ponytail.
My dentist tells me that chewing bricks is very bad for your teeth.
As he dangled from the rope deep inside the crevasse
Kevin embraced his ability to be at the wrong place at the wrong time.
They finished building the road they knew no one would ever use.
She folded her handkerchief neatly.
Please put on these earmuffs because I can't you hear.
I was very proud of my nickname throughout high school but today- I couldn’t be any different to what my nickname was.
The father handed each child a roadmap at the beginning of the 2-day road trip and explained it was so they could find their way home.
The lyrics of the song sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard.
They improved dramatically once the lead singer left.
The teenage boy was accused of breaking his arm simply to get out of the test.
The best key lime pie is still up for debate.
My biggest joy is roasting almonds while stalking prey.
Her fragrance of choice was fresh garlic.
The stench from the feedlot permeated the car despite having the air conditioning on recycled air.
Andy loved to sleep on a bed of nails.
She was amazed by the large chunks of ice washing up on the beach.
I like to leave work after my eight-hour tea-break.
Excitement replaced fear until the final moment.
The manager of the fruit stand always sat and only sold vegetables.
He embraced his new life as an eggplant.
It was the best sandcastle he had ever seen.
I come from a tribe of head-hunters, so I will never need a shrink.
There was no telling what thoughts would come from the machine.
There's a growing trend among teenagers of using frisbees as go-cart wheels.
I am happy to take your donation; any amount will be greatly appreciated.
He enjoys practicing his ballet in the bathroom.
The external scars tell only part of the story.
Most shark attacks occur about 10 feet from the beach since that's where the people are.
As you consider all the possible ways to improve yourself and the world, you notice John Travolta seems fairly unhappy.
He poured rocks in the dungeon of his mind.
The Great Dane looked more like a horse than a dog.
Jim liked driving around town with his hazard lights on.
The fence was confused about whether it was supposed to keep things in or keep things out.
You'll see the rainbow bridge after it rains cats and dogs.
She couldn't understand why nobody else could see that the sky is full of cotton candy.
It was obvious she was hot, sweaty, and tired.
As she walked along the street and looked in the gutter, she realized facemasks had become the new cigarette butts.
Sarah ran from the serial killer holding a jug of milk.
She traveled because it cost the same as therapy and was a lot more enjoyable.
Nothing seemed out of place except the washing machine in the bar.
Mary plays the piano.
She had some amazing news to share but nobody to share it with.
He uses onomatopoeia as a weapon of mental destruction.
If my calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than my browser history.
Don't step on the broken glass.
Today is the day I'll finally know what brick tastes like.
He used to get confused between soldiers and shoulders, but as a military man, he now soldiers responsibility.
David proudly graduated from high school top of his class at age 97.
Traveling became almost extinct during the pandemic.
Trash covered the landscape like sprinkles do a birthday cake.
He watched the dancing piglets with panda bear tummies in the swimming pool.
Standing on one's head at job interviews forms a lasting impression.
He wondered if it could be called a beach if there was no sand.
Please tell me you don't work in a morgue.
She let the balloon float up into the air with her hopes and dreams.
Her daily goal was to improve on yesterday.
They decided to plant an orchard of cotton candy.
The beach was crowded with snow leopards.
The Guinea fowl flies through the air with all the grace of a turtle.
I love eating toasted cheese and tuna sandwiches.
Normal activities took extraordinary amounts of concentration at the high altitude.
Everyone was busy, so I went to the movie alone.
Dan took the deep dive down the rabbit hole.
People keep telling me "orange" but I still prefer "pink".
It's difficult to understand the lengths he'd go to remain short.
She saw no irony asking me to change but wanting me to accept her for who she is.
I just wanted to tell you I could see the love you have for your child by the way you look at her.
The underground bunker was filled with chips and candy.
Nobody has encountered an explosive daisy and lived to tell the tale.
Homesickness became contagious in the young campers' cabin.
He found the end of the rainbow and was surprised at what he found there.
It doesn't sound like that will ever be on my travel list.
Written warnings in instruction manuals are worthless since rabbits can't read.
Martha came to the conclusion that shake weights are a great gift for any occasion.
Boulders lined the side of the road foretelling what could come next.
Art doesn't have to be intentional.
Tomatoes make great weapons when water balloons aren’t available.
She had a habit of taking showers in lemonade.
We need to rent a room for our party.
It was getting dark, and we weren’t there yet.
Best friends are like old tomatoes and shoelaces.
Pantyhose and heels are an interesting choice of attire for the beach.
Too many prisons have become early coffins.
She did her best to help him.
For the 216th time, he said he would quit drinking soda after this last Coke.
She could hear him in the shower singing with a joy she hoped he'd retain after she delivered the news.
I checked to make sure that he was still alive.
This book is sure to liquefy your brain.
The efficiency with which he paired the socks in the drawer was quite admirable.
Three generations with six decades of life experience.
The pigs were insulted that they were named hamburgers.
He spiked his hair green to support his iguana.
I've always wanted to go to Tajikistan, but my cat would miss me.
The beauty of the sunset was obscured by the industrial cranes.
The light in his life was actually a fire burning all around him.
As the years pass by, we all know owners look more and more like their dogs.
Two seats were vacant.
The murder hornet was disappointed by the preconceived ideas people had of him.
Iguanas were falling out of the trees.
It was the scarcity that fueled his creativity.
Please wait outside of the house.
He hated that he loved what she hated about hate.
Joyce enjoyed eating pancakes with ketchup.
It isn't true that my mattress is made of cotton candy.
Smoky the Bear secretly started the fires.
It had been sixteen days since the zombies first attacked.
If you really strain your ears, you can just about hear the sound of no one giving a damn.
I was fishing for compliments and accidentally caught a trout.
She was the type of girl who wanted to live in a pink house.
The small white buoys marked the location of hundreds of crab pots.
His mind was blown that there was nothing in space except space itself.
He turned in the research paper on Friday; otherwise, he would have not passed the class.
I'm not a party animal, but I do like animal parties.
Today I dressed my unicorn in preparation for the race.
She learned that water bottles are no longer just to hold liquid, but they're also status symbols.
his seven-layer cake only had six layers.
Edith could decide if she should paint her teeth or brush her nails.
She tilted her head back and let whip cream stream into her mouth while taking a bath.
At that moment he wasn't listening to music, he was living an experience.
Mothers spend months of their lives waiting on their children.
He went back to the video to see what had been recorded and was shocked at what he saw.
She is never happy until she finds something to be unhappy about; then, she is overjoyed.
My Mum tries to be cool by saying that she likes all the same things that I do.
I'm confused: when people ask me what's up, and I point, they groan.
It's important to remember to be aware of rampaging grizzly bears.
For oil spots on the floor, nothing beats parking a motorbike in the lounge.
We have a lot of rain in June.
When transplanting seedlings, candied teapots will make the task easier.
I would have gotten the promotion, but my attendance wasn’t good enough.
The green tea and avocado smoothie turned out exactly as would be expected.
The bullet pierced the window shattering it before missing Danny's head by mere millimeters.
He looked behind the door and didn't like what he saw.
We have young kids who often walk into our room at night for various reasons including clowns in the closet.
Happiness can be found in the depths of chocolate pudding.
In the end, he realized he could see sound and hear words.
It took him a month to finish the meal.
There should have been a time and a place, but this wasn't it.
I've traveled all around Africa and still haven't found the gnu who stole my scarf.
Karen believed all traffic laws should be obeyed by all except herself.
My secretary is the only person who truly understands my stamp-collecting obsession.
There were three sphered rocks congregating in a cubed room.
My uncle's favorite pastime was building cars out of noodles.
The sight of his goatee made me want to run and hide under my sister-in-law's bed.
His get rich quick scheme was to grow a cactus farm.
Blue sounded too cold at the time and yet it seemed to work for gin.
The sunblock was handed to the girl before practice, but the burned skin was proof she did not apply it.
He found the chocolate covered roaches quite tasty.
Bill ran from the giraffe toward the dolphin.
Barking dogs and screaming toddlers have the unique ability to turn friendly neighbors into cranky enemies.
Flash photography is best used in full sunlight.
He drank life before spitting it out.
A dead duck doesn't fly backward.
After coating myself in vegetable oil I found my success rate skyrocketed.
He liked to play with words in the bathtub.
When she didn’t like a guy who was trying to pick her up, she started using sign language.
I never knew what hardship looked like until it started raining bowling balls.
He didn't heed the warning and it had turned out surprisingly well.
Nobody loves a pig wearing lipstick.
I am counting my calories, yet I really want dessert.
The estate agent quickly marked out his territory on the dance floor.
There's probably enough glass in my cupboard to build an undersea aquarium.
The sign said there was road work ahead so he decided to speed up.
He's in a boy band which doesn't make much sense for a snake.
I cheated while playing the darts tournament by using a longbow.
When motorists sped in and out of traffic, all she could think of was those in need of a transplant.
The fact that there's a stairway to heaven and a highway to hell explains life well.
Of course, she loves her pink bunny slippers.
He knew it was going to be a bad day when he saw mountain lions roaming the streets.
There aren't enough towels in the world to stop the sewage flowing from his mouth.
He always wore his sunglasses at night.
She saw the brake lights, but not in time.
All you need to do is pick up the pen and begin.
She only paints with bold colors; she does not like pastels.
I may struggle with geography, but I'm sure I'm somewhere around here.
I think I will buy the red car, or I will lease the blue one.
The old rusted farm equipment surrounded the house predicting its demise.
The fish listened intently to what the frogs had to say.
There were white out conditions in the town; subsequently, the roads were impassable.
He decided that the time had come to be stronger than any of the excuses he'd used until then.
Every manager should be able to recite at least ten nursery rhymes backward.
There's an art to getting your way, and spitting olive pits across the table isn't it.
He was disappointed when he found the beach to be so sandy and the sun so sunny.
The anaconda was the greatest criminal mastermind in this part of the neighborhood.
She lived on Monkey Jungle Road and that seemed to explain all of her strangeness.
Nancy was proud that she ran a tight shipwreck.
She opened up her third bottle of wine of the night.
Had he known what was going to happen, he would have never stepped into the shower.
Greetings from the real universe.
The bees decided to have a mutiny against their queen.
8% of 25 is the same as 25% of 8 and one of them is much easier to do in your head.
Three years later, the coffin was still full of Jello.
Acres of almond trees lined the interstate highway which complimented the crazy driving nuts.
It was difficult for Mary to admit that most of her workout consisted of exercising poor judgment.
She looked into the mirror and saw another person.
He decided to count all the sand on the beach as a hobby.
I hear that Nancy is very pretty.
As he waited for the shower to warm, he noticed that he could hear water change temperature.
He was the type of guy who liked Christmas lights on his house in the middle of July.
Seek success, but always be prepared for random cats.
The miniature pet elephant became the envy of the neighborhood.
With a single flip of the coin, his life changed forever.
She advised him to come back at once.
He ran out of money, so he had to stop playing poker.
He stomped on his fruit loops and thus became a cereal killer.
He was so preoccupied with whether or not he could that he failed to stop to consider if he should.
The elephant didn't want to talk about the person in the room.
Weather is not trivial - it's especially important when you're standing in it.
The thunderous roar of the jet overhead confirmed her worst fears.
He had unknowingly taken up sleepwalking as a nighttime hobby.
Today we gathered moss for my uncle's wedding.
Karen realized the only way she was getting into heaven was to cheat.
I purchased a baby clown from the Russian terrorist black market.
They're playing the piano while flying in the plane.
A kangaroo is really just a rabbit on steroids.
She works two jobs to make ends meet; at least, that was her reason for not having time to join us.
He had reached the point where he was paranoid about being paranoid.
Various sea birds are elegant, but nothing is as elegant as a gliding pelican.
He dreamed of eating green apples with worms.
It's never comforting to know that your fate depends on something as unpredictable as the popping of corn.
It's a skateboarding penguin with a sunhat!
The hand sanitizer was actually clear glue.
I was starting to worry that my pet turtle could tell what I was thinking.
He felt that dining on the bridge brought romance to his relationship with his cat.
I am my aunt's sister's daughter.
Flesh-colored yoga pants were far worse than even he feared.
She was only made the society president because she can whistle with her toes.
He was sitting in a trash can with high street class.
She did a happy dance because all of the socks from the dryer matched.
Today arrived with a crash of my car through the garage door.
The river stole the gods.
The tattered work gloves speak of the many hours of hard labor he endured throughout his life.
Her hair was windswept as she rode in the black convertible.
The toddler’s endless tantrum caused the entire plane anxiety.
There is no better feeling than staring at a wall with closed eyes.
The swirled lollipop had issues with the pop rock candy.
They throw cabbage that turns your brain into emotional baggage.
The skeleton had skeletons of his own in the closet.
If you spin around three times, you'll start to feel melancholy.
Just because the water is red doesn't mean you can't drink it.
It isn't difficult to do a handstand if you just stand on your hands.
If I don’t like something, I’ll stay away from it.
The door slammed on the watermelon.
This is a Japanese doll.
The pet shop stocks everything you need to keep your anaconda happy.
Chocolate covered crickets were his favorite snack.
They say that dogs are man's best friend, but this cat was setting out to sabotage that theory.
The book is in front of the table.
He waited for the stop sign to turn to a go sign.
I received a heavy fine but it failed to crush my spirit.
You bite up because of your lower jaw.
Henry couldn't decide if he was an auto mechanic or a priest.
Sixty-Four comes asking for bread.
The reservoir water level continued to lower while we enjoyed our long shower.
There are over 500 starfish in the bathroom drawer.
The view from the lighthouse excited even the most seasoned traveler.
There's no reason a hula hoop can't also be a circus ring.
The shark-infested South Pine channel was the only way in or out.
Watching the geriatric men’s softball team brought back memories of 3 yr olds playing t-ball.
Warm beer on a cold day isn't my idea of fun.
I love bacon, beer, birds, and baboons.
The glacier came alive as the climbers hiked closer.
It was the first time he had ever seen someone cook dinner on an elephant.
Jerry liked to look at paintings while eating garlic ice cream.
The bug was having an excellent day until he hit the windshield.
More RVs were seen in the storage lot than at the campground.
The group quickly understood that toxic waste was the most effective barrier to use against the zombies.
Malls are great places to shop; I can find everything I need under one roof.
It's never been my responsibility to glaze the donuts.
That must be the tenth time I've been arrested for selling deep-fried cigars.
The trick to getting kids to eat anything is to put catchup on it.
The secret ingredient to his wonderful life was crime.
It took me too long to realize that the ceiling hadn't been painted to look like the sky.
She thought there'd be sufficient time if she hid her watch.
Pair your designer cowboy hat with scuba gear for a memorable occasion.
Green should have smelled more tranquil, but somehow it just tasted rotten.
The complicated school homework left the parents trying to help their kids quite confused.
The fox in the tophat whispered into the ear of the rabbit.
Eating eggs on Thursday for choir practice was recommended.
Dan ate the clouds like cotton candy.
It was always dangerous to drive with him since he insisted the safety cones were a slalom course.
Erin accidentally created a new universe.
Improve your goldfish's physical fitness by getting him a bicycle.
The urgent care center was flooded with patients after the news of a new deadly virus was made public.
The tears of a clown make my lipstick run, but my shower cap is still intact.
Nancy decided to make the porta-potty her home.
I know many children ask for a pony, but I wanted a bicycle with rockets strapped to it.
I ate a sock because people on the Internet told me to.
The door swung open to reveal pink giraffes and red elephants.
Being unacquainted with the chief raccoon was harming his prospects for promotion.
She cried diamonds.
At that moment she realized she had a sixth sense.
Tuesdays are free if you bring a gnome costume.
The hummingbird's wings blurred while it eagerly sipped the sugar water from the feeder.
When nobody is around, the trees gossip about the people who have walked under them.
She had convinced her kids that any mushroom found on the ground would kill them if they touched it.
Her scream silenced the rowdy teenagers.
He was sure the Devil created red sparkly glitter.
The minute she landed she understood the reason this was a fly-over state.
The spa attendant applied the deep cleaning mask to the gentleman’s back.
I’m a living furnace.
Purple is the best city in the forest.
The changing of down comforters to cotton bedspreads always meant the squirrels had returned.
When he asked her favorite number, she answered without hesitation that it was diamonds.
You have no right to call yourself creative until you look at a trowel and think that it would make a great lockpick.
Tomorrow will bring something new, so leave today as a memory.
Dolores wouldn't have eaten the meal if she had known what it actually was.
All they could see was the blue water surrounding their sailboat.
Italy is my favorite country; in fact, I plan to spend two weeks there next year.
It took him a while to realize that everything he decided not to change, he was actually choosing.
He never understood why what, when, and where left out who.
Abstraction is often one floor above you.
Everyone says they love nature until they realize how dangerous she can be.
In hopes of finding out the truth, he entered the one-room library.
The random sentence generator generated a random sentence about a random sentence.
The hawk didn’t understand why the ground squirrels didn’t want to be his friend.
Waffles are always better without fire ants and fleas.
He colored deep space a soft yellow.
I am never at home on Sundays.
Shingle color was not something the couple had ever talked about.
They ran around the corner to find that they had traveled back in time.
When he encountered maize for the first time, he thought it incredibly corny.
The virus had powers none of us knew existed.
As he looked out the window, he saw a clown walk by.
Not all people who wander are lost.
She wasn't sure whether to be impressed or concerned that he folded underwear in neat little packages.
Peanuts don't grow on trees, but cashews do.
I only enjoy window shopping when the windows are transparent.
The tart lemonade quenched her thirst, but not her longing.
A purple pig and a green donkey flew a kite in the middle of the night and ended up sunburnt.
He walked into the basement with the horror movie from the night before playing in his head.
I don’t respect anybody who can’t tell the difference between Pepsi and Coke.
They were excited to see their first sloth.
He wondered why at 18 he was old enough to go to war, but not old enough to buy cigarettes.
I'm a great listener, really good with empathy vs sympathy and all that, but I hate people.
It didn't take long for Gary to detect the robbers were amateurs.
Stop waiting for exceptional things to just happen.
She wondered what his eyes were saying beneath his mirrored sunglasses.
Whenever he saw a red flag warning at the beach he grabbed his surfboard.
David subscribes to the "stuff your tent into the bag" strategy over nicely folding it.
Check back tomorrow; I will see if the book has arrived.
Be careful with that butter knife.
There's a reason that roses have thorns.
I honestly find her about as intimidating as a basket of kittens.
Car safety systems have come a long way, but he was out to prove they could be outsmarted.
There was no ice cream in the freezer, nor did they have money to go to the store.
He stepped gingerly onto the bridge knowing that enchantment awaited on the other side.
The light that burns twice as bright burns half as long.
Truth in advertising and dinosaurs with skateboards have much in common.
As the rental car rolled to a stop on the dark road, her fear increased by the moment.
I want more detailed information.
When I was little I had a car door slammed shut on my hand and I still remember it quite vividly.
The newly planted trees were held up by wooden frames in hopes they could survive the next storm.
Gary didn't understand why Doug went upstairs to get one dollar bills when he invited him to go cow tipping.
The sky is clear; the stars are twinkling.
Peter found road kill an excellent way to save money on dinner.
The clouds formed beautiful animals in the sky that eventually created a tornado to wreak havoc.
All she wanted was the answer, but she had no idea how much she would hate it.
She was disgusted he couldn’t tell the difference between lemonade and limeade.
Imagine his surprise when he discovered that the safe was full of pudding.
He found rain fascinating yet unpleasant.
It's much more difficult to play tennis with a bowling ball than it is to bowl with a tennis ball.
Hit me with your pet shark!
The three-year-old girl ran down the beach as the kite flew behind her.
I used to practice weaving with spaghetti three hours a day but stopped because I didn't want to die alone.
Her life in the confines of the house became her new normal.
He went on a whiskey diet and immediately lost three days.
Just go ahead and press that button.
The rain pelted the windshield as the darkness engulfed us.
Buried deep in the snow, he hoped his batteries were fresh in his avalanche beacon.
The family’s excitement over going to Disneyland was crazier than she anticipated.
Behind the window was a reflection that only instilled fear.
Always bring cinnamon buns on a deep-sea diving expedition.
I'd rather be a bird than a fish.
Charles ate the french fries knowing they would be his last meal.
She couldn't decide of the glass was half empty or half full so she drank it.
Never underestimate the willingness of the greedy to throw you under the bus.
Cats are good pets, for they are clean and are not noisy.
She looked at the masterpiece hanging in the museum but all she could think is that her five-year-old could do better.
It was a really good Monday for being a Saturday.
People who insist on picking their teeth with their elbows are so annoying!
You realize you're not alone as you sit in your bedroom massaging your calves after a long day of playing tug-of-war with Grandpa Joe in the hospital.
You're good at English when you know the difference between a man eating chicken and a man-eating chicken.
They did nothing as the raccoon attacked the lady’s bag of food.
They called out her name time and again, but were met with nothing but silence.
He would only survive if he kept the fire going and he could hear thunder in the distance.
Even though he thought the world was flat he didn’t see the irony of wanting to travel around the world.
She wrote him a long letter, but he didn't read it.
Even with the snow falling outside, she felt it appropriate to wear her bikini.
The wooden spoon couldn’t cut but left emotional scars.
The secret code they created made no sense, even to them.
I became paranoid that the school of jellyfish was spying on me.
When he had to picnic on the beach, he purposely put sand in other people’s food.
Jenny made the announcement that her baby was an alien.
She says she has the ability to hear the soundtrack of your life.
His thought process was on so many levels that he gave himself a phobia of heights.
While all her friends were positive that Mary had a sixth sense, she knew she actually had a seventh sense.
The paintbrush was angry at the color the artist chose to use.
He didn’t want to go to the dentist, yet he went anyway.
He was 100% into fasting with her until he understood that meant he couldn't eat.
Nudist colonies shun fig-leaf couture.
Everyone pretends to like wheat until you mention barley.
The busker hoped that the people passing by would throw money, but they threw tomatoes instead, so he exchanged his hat for a juicer.
We're careful about orange ping pong balls because people might think they're fruit.
I often see the time 11:11 or 12:34 on clocks.
I'll have you know I've written over fifty novels
We will not allow you to bring your pet armadillo along.
He was the only member of the club who didn't like plum pudding.
Grape jelly was leaking out the hole in the roof.
Random words in front of other random words create a random sentence.
The mysterious diary records the voice.
He wasn't bitter that she had moved on but from the radish.
The rusty nail stood erect, angled at a 45-degree angle, just waiting for the perfect barefoot to come along.
Mr. Montoya knows the way to the bakery even though he's never been there.
Some bathing suits just shouldn’t be worn by some people.
She felt that chill that makes the hairs on the back of your neck when he walked into the room.
The lake is a long way from here.
The chic gangster liked to start the day with a pink scarf.
He was all business when he wore his clown suit.
It didn't make sense unless you had the power to eat colors.
To the surprise of everyone, the Rapture happened yesterday but it didn't quite go as expected.
There were a lot of paintings of monkeys waving bamboo sticks in the gallery.
A quiet house is nice until you are ordered to stay in it for months.
Lightning Paradise was the local hangout joint where the group usually ended up spending the night.
Toddlers feeding raccoons surprised even the seasoned park ranger.
It's always a good idea to seek shelter from the evil gaze of the sun.
She had the gift of being able to paint songs.
There can never be too many cherries on an ice cream sundae.
When money was tight, he'd get his lunch money from the local wishing well.
Lets all be unique together until we realise we are all the same.
There's a message for you if you look up.
He appeared to be confusingly perplexed.
At last
She finally understood that grief was her love with no place for it to go.
Nancy thought the best way to create a welcoming home was to line it with barbed wire.
It dawned on her that others could make her happier, but only she could make herself happy.
Douglas figured the best way to succeed was to do the opposite of what he'd been doing all his life.
I had a friend in high school named Rick Shaw, but he was fairly useless as a mode of transport.
He wore the surgical mask in public not to keep from catching a virus, but to keep people away from him.
I’m working on a sweet potato farm.
She did not cheat on the test, for it was not the right thing to do.
The near-death experience brought new ideas to light.
I currently have 4 windows open up… and I don’t know why.
She was sad to hear that fireflies are facing extinction due to artificial light, habitat loss, and pesticides.
I want a giraffe, but I'm a turtle eating waffles.
As he entered the church he could hear the soft voice of someone whispering into a cell phone.
Courage and stupidity were all he had.
The opportunity of a lifetime passed before him as he tried to decide between a cone or a cup.
It's not often you find a soggy banana on the street.
He loved eating his bananas in hot dog buns.
Mom didn’t understand why no one else wanted a hot tub full of jello.
He didn't understand why the bird wanted to ride the bicycle.
He created a pig burger out of beef.
The water flowing down the river didn’t look that powerful from the car
If you like tuna and tomato sauce, try combining the two, it’s really not as bad as it sounds.
She was the type of girl that always burnt sugar to show she cared.
The ants enjoyed the barbecue more than the family.
I met an interesting turtle while the song on the radio blasted away.
Strawberries must be the one food that doesn't go well with this brand of paint.
It must be easy to commit crimes as a snake because you don't have to worry about leaving fingerprints.
The ants enjoyed the barbecue more than the family.
It's always a good idea to seek shelter from the evil gaze of the sun.
When she didn’t like a guy who was trying to pick her up, she started using sign language.
Car safety systems have come a long way, but he was out to prove they could be outsmarted.
He shaved the peach to prove a point.
I honestly find her about as intimidating as a basket of kittens.
My uncle's favorite pastime was building cars out of noodles.
With a single flip of the coin, his life changed forever.
She insisted that cleaning out your closet was the key to good driving.
There have been days when I wished to be separated from my body, but today wasn’t one of those days.
He had a wall full of masks so she could wear a different face every day.
Everyone was curious about the large white blimp that appeared overnight.
It's never comforting to know that your fate depends on something as unpredictable as the popping of corn.
There are over 500 starfish in the bathroom drawer.
They're playing the piano while flying in the plane.
The tumbleweed refused to tumble but was more than willing to prance.
I would have gotten the promotion, but my attendance wasn’t good enough.
She borrowed the book from him many years ago and hasn't yet returned it.
Today I dressed my unicorn in preparation for the race.
We have never been to Asia, nor have we visited Africa.
We need to rent a room for our party.
Karen believed all traffic laws should be obeyed by all except herself.
As the asteroid hurtled toward earth, Becky was upset her dentist appointment had been canceled.
She wrote him a long letter, but he didn't read it.
I am my aunt's sister's daughter.
He wondered if she would appreciate his toenail collection.
I’m a living furnace.
I was very proud of my nickname throughout high school but today- I couldn’t be any different to what my nickname was.
The changing of down comforters to cotton bedspreads always meant the squirrels had returned.
The minute she landed she understood the reason this was a fly-over state.
This made him feel like an old-style rootbeer float smells.
If eating three-egg omelets causes weight-gain, budgie eggs are a good substitute.
A good example of a useful vegetable is medicinal rhubarb.
He poured rocks in the dungeon of his mind.
He wasn't bitter that she had moved on but from the radish.
Her fragrance of choice was fresh garlic.
The sudden rainstorm washed crocodiles into the ocean.
If you spin around three times, you'll start to feel melancholy.
I always dreamed about being stranded on a desert island until it actually happened.
He was the only member of the club who didn't like plum pudding.
He uses onomatopoeia as a weapon of mental destruction.
Flying fish flew by the space station.
The blue parrot drove by the hitchhiking mongoose.
He loved eating his bananas in hot dog buns.
I was offended by the suggestion that my baby brother was a jewel thief.
He felt that dining on the bridge brought romance to his relationship with his cat.
The rain pelted the windshield as the darkness engulfed us.
Mr. Montoya knows the way to the bakery even though he's never been there.
A song can make or ruin a person’s day if they let it get to them.
Hit me with your pet shark!
At last
There were white out conditions in the town; subsequently, the roads were impassable.
Peanut butter and jelly caused the elderly lady to think about her past.
He wondered why at 18 he was old enough to go to war, but not old enough to buy cigarettes.
I'd always thought lightning was something only I could see.
The lyrics of the song sounded like fingernails on a chalkboard.
He's in a boy band which doesn't make much sense for a snake.
Pair your designer cowboy hat with scuba gear for a memorable occasion.
Writing a list of random sentences is harder than I initially thought it would be.
They finished building the road they knew no one would ever use.
I cheated while playing the darts tournament by using a longbow.
She opened up her third bottle of wine of the night.
There aren't enough towels in the world to stop the sewage flowing from his mouth.
So long and thanks for the fish.
Dan ate the clouds like cotton candy.
I don’t respect anybody who can’t tell the difference between Pepsi and Coke.
That must be the tenth time I've been arrested for selling deep-fried cigars.
They were excited to see their first sloth.
Homesickness became contagious in the young campers' cabin.
The memory we used to share is no longer coherent.
He learned the hardest lesson of his life and had the scars, both physical and mental, to prove it.
He invested some skill points in Charisma and Strength.
I am counting my calories, yet I really want dessert.
He was 100% into fasting with her until he understood that meant he couldn't eat.
This book is sure to liquefy your brain.
When motorists sped in and out of traffic, all she could think of was those in need of a transplant.
Lets all be unique together until we realise we are all the same.
The anaconda was the greatest criminal mastermind in this part of the neighborhood.
I've never seen a more beautiful brandy glass filled with wine.
When I cook spaghetti, I like to boil it a few minutes past al dente so the noodles are super slippery.
He didn't heed the warning and it had turned out surprisingly well.
Shingle color was not something the couple had ever talked about.
Toddlers feeding raccoons surprised even the seasoned park ranger.
Seek success, but always be prepared for random cats.
Weather is not trivial - it's especially important when you're standing in it.
Behind the window was a reflection that only instilled fear.
There's a message for you if you look up.
Last Friday I saw a spotted striped blue worm shake hands with a legless lizard.
While all her friends were positive that Mary had a sixth sense, she knew she actually had a seventh sense.
I am never at home on Sundays.
Not all people who wander are lost.
Various sea birds are elegant, but nothing is as elegant as a gliding pelican.
It was obvious she was hot, sweaty, and tired.
His confidence would have bee admirable if it wasn't for his stupidity.
She wasn't sure whether to be impressed or concerned that he folded underwear in neat little packages.
The complicated school homework left the parents trying to help their kids quite confused.
He was so preoccupied with whether or not he could that he failed to stop to consider if he should.
As the rental car rolled to a stop on the dark road, her fear increased by the moment.
Watching the geriatric men’s softball team brought back memories of 3 yr olds playing t-ball.
Tom got a small piece of pie.
I'm a great listener, really good with empathy vs sympathy and all that, but I hate people.
She was only made the society president because she can whistle with her toes.
More RVs were seen in the storage lot than at the campground.
Wisdom is easily acquired when hiding under the bed with a saucepan on your head.
If my calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than my browser history.
There are no heroes in a punk rock band.
She learned that water bottles are no longer just to hold liquid, but they're also status symbols.
He watched the dancing piglets with panda bear tummies in the swimming pool.
The fox in the tophat whispered into the ear of the rabbit.
The shark-infested South Pine channel was the only way in or out.
The underground bunker was filled with chips and candy.
There are few things better in life than a slice of pie.
When nobody is around, the trees gossip about the people who have walked under them.
He said he was not there yesterday; however, many people saw him there.
Greetings from the real universe.
There's an art to getting your way, and spitting olive pits across the table isn't it.
This is the last random sentence I will be writing and I am going to stop mid-sent
his seven-layer cake only had six layers.
Green should have smelled more tranquil, but somehow it just tasted rotten.
They wandered into a strange Tiki bar on the edge of the small beach town.
There's a reason that roses have thorns.
Three years later, the coffin was still full of Jello.
A glittering gem is not enough.
She was disgusted he couldn’t tell the difference between lemonade and limeade.
The llama couldn't resist trying the lemonade.
Happiness can be found in the depths of chocolate pudding.
She always speaks to him in a loud voice.
He ran out of money, so he had to stop playing poker.
If you really strain your ears, you can just about hear the sound of no one giving a damn.
The Japanese yen for commerce is still well-known.
Three generations with six decades of life experience.
After exploring the abandoned building, he started to believe in ghosts.
The green tea and avocado smoothie turned out exactly as would be expected.
The water flowing down the river didn’t look that powerful from the car
He enjoys practicing his ballet in the bathroom.
The fog was so dense even a laser decided it wasn't worth the effort.
He embraced his new life as an eggplant.
Don't piss in my garden and tell me you're trying to help my plants grow.
It was her first experience training a rainbow unicorn.
The bread dough reminded her of Santa Clause’s belly.
They desperately needed another drummer since the current one only knew how to play bongos.
The tortoise jumped into the lake with dreams of becoming a sea turtle.
Erin accidentally created a new universe.
It isn't true that my mattress is made of cotton candy.
Getting up at dawn is for the birds.
The Tsunami wave crashed against the raised houses and broke the pilings as if they were toothpicks.
He fumbled in the darkness looking for the light switch, but when he finally found it there was someone already there.
I love eating toasted cheese and tuna sandwiches.
Just go ahead and press that button.
Iron pyrite is the most foolish of all minerals.
She was too busy always talking about what she wanted to do to actually do any of it.
Tomatoes make great weapons when water balloons aren’t available.
Excitement replaced fear until the final moment.
I liked their first two albums but changed my mind after that charity gig.
He decided to count all the sand on the beach as a hobby.
He wondered if it could be called a beach if there was no sand.
She had some amazing news to share but nobody to share it with.
They got there early, and they got really good seats.
He used to get confused between soldiers and shoulders, but as a military man, he now soldiers responsibility.
She found it strange that people use their cellphones to actually talk to one another.
Standing on one's head at job interviews forms a lasting impression.
The worst thing about being at the top of the career ladder is that there's a long way to fall.
Yeah, I think it's a good environment for learning English.
The clouds formed beautiful animals in the sky that eventually created a tornado to wreak havoc.
The sight of his goatee made me want to run and hide under my sister-in-law's bed.
Sixty-Four comes asking for bread.
Charles ate the french fries knowing they would be his last meal.
Every manager should be able to recite at least ten nursery rhymes backward.
He looked behind the door and didn't like what he saw.
The family’s excitement over going to Disneyland was crazier than she anticipated.
That is an appealing treasure map that I can't read.
She did a happy dance because all of the socks from the dryer matched.
Sarah ran from the serial killer holding a jug of milk.
Best friends are like old tomatoes and shoelaces.
The near-death experience brought new ideas to light.
Giving directions that the mountains are to the west only works when you can see them.
He swore he just saw his sushi move.
All she wanted was the answer, but she had no idea how much she would hate it.
I was starting to worry that my pet turtle could tell what I was thinking.
I used to practice weaving with spaghetti three hours a day but stopped because I didn't want to die alone.
He is good at eating pickles and telling women about his emotional problems.
Nothing seemed out of place except the washing machine in the bar.
Poison ivy grew through the fence they said was impenetrable.
It was getting dark, and we weren’t there yet.
Cursive writing is the best way to build a race track.
For oil spots on the floor, nothing beats parking a motorbike in the lounge.
Her life in the confines of the house became her new normal.
It would have been a better night if the guys next to us weren't in the splash zone.
I'd rather be a bird than a fish.
Nancy thought the best way to create a welcoming home was to line it with barbed wire.
As he entered the church he could hear the soft voice of someone whispering into a cell phone.
Waffles are always better without fire ants and fleas.
Please tell me you don't work in a morgue.
Cats are good pets, for they are clean and are not noisy.
Smoky the Bear secretly started the fires.
She couldn't decide of the glass was half empty or half full so she drank it.
If I don’t like something, I’ll stay away from it.
The fifty mannequin heads floating in the pool kind of freaked them out.
In that instant, everything changed.
Be careful with that butter knife.
Gary didn't understand why Doug went upstairs to get one dollar bills when he invited him to go cow tipping.
As you consider all the possible ways to improve yourself and the world, you notice John Travolta seems fairly unhappy.
The secret ingredient to his wonderful life was crime.
It was the first time he had ever seen someone cook dinner on an elephant.
I met an interesting turtle while the song on the radio blasted away.
They ran around the corner to find that they had traveled back in time.
On a scale from one to ten, what's your favorite flavor of random grammar?
Pink horses galloped across the sea.
Someone I know recently combined Maple Syrup & buttered Popcorn thinking it would taste like caramel popcorn. It didn’t and they don’t recommend anyone else do it either.
He found a leprechaun in his walnut shell.
Today I bought a raincoat and wore it on a sunny day.
She saw no irony asking me to change but wanting me to accept her for who she is.
She finally understood that grief was her love with no place for it to go.
She is never happy until she finds something to be unhappy about; then, she is overjoyed.
It's difficult to understand the lengths he'd go to remain short.
He liked to play with words in the bathtub.
It was at that moment that he learned there are certain parts of the body that you should never Nair.
He stomped on his fruit loops and thus became a cereal killer.
He was an introvert that extroverts seemed to love.
The body piercing didn't go exactly as he expected.
He was sure the Devil created red sparkly glitter.
Trash covered the landscape like sprinkles do a birthday cake.
Everybody should read Chaucer to improve their everyday vocabulary.
The sun had set and so had his dreams.
The rusty nail stood erect, angled at a 45-degree angle, just waiting for the perfect barefoot to come along.
The light that burns twice as bright burns half as long.
Italy is my favorite country; in fact, I plan to spend two weeks there next year.
As he looked out the window, he saw a clown walk by.
She advised him to come back at once.
She did her best to help him.
He dreamed of leaving his law firm to open a portable dog wash.
She had a habit of taking showers in lemonade.
It took him a while to realize that everything he decided not to change, he was actually choosing.
Joyce enjoyed eating pancakes with ketchup.
Love is not like pizza.
Grape jelly was leaking out the hole in the roof.
There can never be too many cherries on an ice cream sundae.
I may struggle with geography, but I'm sure I'm somewhere around here.
He decided to fake his disappearance to avoid jail.
The sky is clear; the stars are twinkling.
They improved dramatically once the lead singer left.
He was all business when he wore his clown suit.
It's never been my responsibility to glaze the donuts.
Everyone pretends to like wheat until you mention barley.
He put heat on the wound to see what would grow.
The miniature pet elephant became the envy of the neighborhood.
Going from child, to childish, to childlike is only a matter of time.
Stop waiting for exceptional things to just happen.
Situps are a terrible way to end your day.
The teenage boy was accused of breaking his arm simply to get out of the test.
All you need to do is pick up the pen and begin.
Strawberries must be the one food that doesn't go well with this brand of paint.
The furnace repairman indicated the heating system was acting as an air conditioner.
He never understood why what, when, and where left out who.
Too many prisons have become early coffins.
You have no right to call yourself creative until you look at a trowel and think that it would make a great lockpick.
There's no reason a hula hoop can't also be a circus ring.
Sometimes you have to just give up and win by cheating.
I just wanted to tell you I could see the love you have for your child by the way you look at her.
Dolores wouldn't have eaten the meal if she had known what it actually was.
The hand sanitizer was actually clear glue.
We have young kids who often walk into our room at night for various reasons including clowns in the closet.
When he encountered maize for the first time, he thought it incredibly corny.
She only paints with bold colors; she does not like pastels.
She discovered van life is difficult with 2 cats and a dog.
The view from the lighthouse excited even the most seasoned traveler.
He turned in the research paper on Friday; otherwise, he would have not passed the class.
Swim at your own risk was taken as a challenge for the group of Kansas City college students.
Kevin embraced his ability to be at the wrong place at the wrong time.
We should play with legos at camp.
The thick foliage and intertwined vines made the hike nearly impossible.
It dawned on her that others could make her happier, but only she could make herself happy.
It was the best sandcastle he had ever seen.
She was sad to hear that fireflies are facing extinction due to artificial light, habitat loss, and pesticides.
I'm worried by the fact that my daughter looks to the local carpet seller as a role model.
They say that dogs are man's best friend, but this cat was setting out to sabotage that theory.
Warm beer on a cold day isn't my idea of fun.
Jenny made the announcement that her baby was an alien.
At that moment she realized she had a sixth sense.
It's a skateboarding penguin with a sunhat!
It's important to remember to be aware of rampaging grizzly bears.
Blue sounded too cold at the time and yet it seemed to work for gin.
Dan took the deep dive down the rabbit hole.
Sometimes, all you need to do is completely make an ass of yourself and laugh it off to realise that life isn’t so bad after all.
The three-year-old girl ran down the beach as the kite flew behind her.
The urgent care center was flooded with patients after the news of a new deadly virus was made public.
Patricia found the meaning of life in a bowl of Cheerios.
The Great Dane looked more like a horse than a dog.
The hawk didn’t understand why the ground squirrels didn’t want to be his friend.
My secretary is the only person who truly understands my stamp-collecting obsession.
Everyone says they love nature until they realize how dangerous she can be.
I caught my squirrel rustling through my gym bag.
His ultimate dream fantasy consisted of being content and sleeping eight hours in a row.
He was disappointed when he found the beach to be so sandy and the sun so sunny.
You'll see the rainbow bridge after it rains cats and dogs.
She used her own hair in the soup to give it more flavor.
The bug was having an excellent day until he hit the windshield.
Despite what your teacher may have told you, there is a wrong way to wield a lasso.
Being unacquainted with the chief raccoon was harming his prospects for promotion.
Abstraction is often one floor above you.
The glacier came alive as the climbers hiked closer.
The hummingbird's wings blurred while it eagerly sipped the sugar water from the feeder.
There were three sphered rocks congregating in a cubed room.
Peter found road kill an excellent way to save money on dinner.
The opportunity of a lifetime passed before him as he tried to decide between a cone or a cup.
My dentist tells me that chewing bricks is very bad for your teeth.
David subscribes to the "stuff your tent into the bag" strategy over nicely folding it.
Truth in advertising and dinosaurs with skateboards have much in common.
When confronted with a rotary dial phone the teenager was perplexed.
Lightning Paradise was the local hangout joint where the group usually ended up spending the night.
Combines are no longer just for farms.
I love bacon, beer, birds, and baboons.
She always had an interesting perspective on why the world must be flat.
His get rich quick scheme was to grow a cactus farm.
The wooden spoon couldn’t cut but left emotional scars.
The irony of the situation wasn't lost on anyone in the room.
Potato wedges probably are not best for relationships.
I am happy to take your donation; any amount will be greatly appreciated.
There was no ice cream in the freezer, nor did they have money to go to the store.
Having no hair made him look even hairier.
He had a vague sense that trees gave birth to dinosaurs.
David proudly graduated from high school top of his class at age 97.
Karen realized the only way she was getting into heaven was to cheat.
I covered my friend in baby oil.
Andy loved to sleep on a bed of nails.
Always bring cinnamon buns on a deep-sea diving expedition.
The newly planted trees were held up by wooden frames in hopes they could survive the next storm.
The gloves protect my feet from excess work.
I checked to make sure that he was still alive.
When he asked her favorite number, she answered without hesitation that it was diamonds.
Your girlfriend bought your favorite cookie crisp cereal but forgot to get milk.
It isn't difficult to do a handstand if you just stand on your hands.
People who insist on picking their teeth with their elbows are so annoying!
The beauty of the sunset was obscured by the industrial cranes.
He was the type of guy who liked Christmas lights on his house in the middle of July.
The teens wondered what was kept in the red shed on the far edge of the school grounds.
He found rain fascinating yet unpleasant.
It doesn't sound like that will ever be on my travel list.
Jim liked driving around town with his hazard lights on.
His mind was blown that there was nothing in space except space itself.
It turns out you don't need all that stuff you insisted you did.
He realized there had been several deaths on this road, but his concern rose when he saw the exact number.
Iguanas were falling out of the trees.
Doris enjoyed tapping her nails on the table to annoy everyone.
We have a lot of rain in June.
Flash photography is best used in full sunlight.
The external scars tell only part of the story.
Jason lived his life by the motto, "Anything worth doing is worth doing poorly.
He walked into the basement with the horror movie from the night before playing in his head.
There's a growing trend among teenagers of using frisbees as go-cart wheels.
Harrold felt confident that nobody would ever suspect his spy pigeon.
Check back tomorrow; I will see if the book has arrived.
The pigs were insulted that they were named hamburgers.
A dead duck doesn't fly backward.
He was willing to find the depths of the rabbit hole in order to be with her.
Although it wasn't a pot of gold, Nancy was still enthralled at what she found at the end of the rainbow.
8% of 25 is the same as 25% of 8 and one of them is much easier to do in your head.
I like to leave work after my eight-hour tea-break.
The light in his life was actually a fire burning all around him.
I can't believe this is the eighth time I'm smashing open my piggy bank on the same day!
The book is in front of the table.
It's not possible to convince a monkey to give you a banana by promising it infinite bananas when they die.
A kangaroo is really just a rabbit on steroids.
His son quipped that power bars were nothing more than adult candy bars.
Nobody has encountered an explosive daisy and lived to tell the tale.
The stench from the feedlot permeated the car despite having the air conditioning on recycled air.
Let me help you with your baggage.
He drank life before spitting it out.
The beauty of the African sunset disguised the danger lurking nearby.
She looked into the mirror and saw another person.
He colored deep space a soft yellow.
There was coal in his stocking and he was thrilled.
The door slammed on the watermelon.
The fence was confused about whether it was supposed to keep things in or keep things out.
Mary realized if her calculator had a history, it would be more embarrassing than her computer browser history.
She wanted a pet platypus but ended up getting a duck and a ferret instead.
You bite up because of your lower jaw.
I've always wanted to go to Tajikistan, but my cat would miss me.
Garlic ice-cream was her favorite.
The father handed each child a roadmap at the beginning of the 2-day road trip and explained it was so they could find their way home.
Thigh-high in the water, the fisherman’s hope for dinner soon turned to despair.
The doll spun around in circles in hopes of coming alive.
The river stole the gods.
I had a friend in high school named Rick Shaw, but he was fairly useless as a mode of transport.
Chocolate covered crickets were his favorite snack.
This is a Japanese doll.
The tears of a clown make my lipstick run, but my shower cap is still intact.
She folded her handkerchief neatly.
I ate a sock because people on the Internet told me to.
Some bathing suits just shouldn’t be worn by some people.
I would be delighted if the sea were full of cucumber juice.
He was sitting in a trash can with high street class.
She wore green lipstick like a fashion icon.
He wore the surgical mask in public not to keep from catching a virus, but to keep people away from him.
The stranger officiates the meal.
He took one look at what was under the table and noped the hell out of there.
She did not cheat on the test, for it was not the right thing to do.
Choosing to do nothing is still a choice, after all.
It was a really good Monday for being a Saturday.
He dreamed of eating green apples with worms.
He stepped gingerly onto the bridge knowing that enchantment awaited on the other side.
I'll have you know I've written over fifty novels
The murder hornet was disappointed by the preconceived ideas people had of him.
The two walked down the slot canyon oblivious to the sound of thunder in the distance.
Carol drank the blood as if she were a vampire.
Rock music approaches at high velocity.
I think I will buy the red car, or I will lease the blue one.
In the end, he realized he could see sound and hear words.
I hear that Nancy is very pretty.
The reservoir water level continued to lower while we enjoyed our long shower.
Everyone was busy, so I went to the movie alone.
As the years pass by, we all know owners look more and more like their dogs.
It was difficult for Mary to admit that most of her workout consisted of exercising poor judgment.
Her daily goal was to improve on yesterday.
If you don't like toenails, you probably shouldn't look at your feet.
The swirled lollipop had issues with the pop rock candy.
The fish dreamed of escaping the fishbowl and into the toilet where he saw his friend go.
Never underestimate the willingness of the greedy to throw you under the bus.
She was amazed by the large chunks of ice washing up on the beach.
There should have been a time and a place, but this wasn't it.
It didn't make sense unless you had the power to eat colors.
They looked up at the sky and saw a million stars.
He learned the important lesson that a picnic at the beach on a windy day is a bad idea.
She says she has the ability to hear the soundtrack of your life.
Hang on, my kittens are scratching at the bathtub and they'll upset by the lack of biscuits.
Plans for this weekend include turning wine into water.
Separation anxiety is what happens when you can't find your phone.
At that moment he wasn't listening to music, he was living an experience.
When I was little I had a car door slammed shut on my hand and I still remember it quite vividly.
As time wore on, simple dog commands turned into full paragraphs explaining why the dog couldn’t do something.
The bird had a belief that it was really a groundhog.
Just because the water is red doesn't mean you can't drink it.
She felt that chill that makes the hairs on the back of your neck when he walked into the room.
He appeared to be confusingly perplexed.
Of course, she loves her pink bunny slippers.
The best key lime pie is still up for debate.
Please put on these earmuffs because I can't you hear.
Facing his greatest fear, he ate his first marshmallow.
Red is greener than purple, for sure.
Joe made the sugar cookies; Susan decorated them.
I never knew what hardship looked like until it started raining bowling balls.
Mothers spend months of their lives waiting on their children.
People generally approve of dogs eating cat food but not cats eating dog food.
After fighting off the alligator, Brian still had to face the anaconda.
You should never take advice from someone who thinks red paint dries quicker than blue paint.
Martha came to the conclusion that shake weights are a great gift for any occasion.
The father died during childbirth.
I'm confused: when people ask me what's up, and I point, they groan.
He decided that the time had come to be stronger than any of the excuses he'd used until then.
He had a hidden stash underneath the floorboards in the back room of the house.
The clock within this blog and the clock on my laptop are 1 hour different from each other.
Eating eggs on Thursday for choir practice was recommended.
If any cop asks you where you were, just say you were visiting Kansas.
The elephant didn't want to talk about the person in the room.
Her hair was windswept as she rode in the black convertible.
Despite multiple complications and her near-death experience
Nobody questions who built the pyramids in Mexico.
The tree fell unexpectedly short.
I often see the time 11:11 or 12:34 on clocks.
The golden retriever loved the fireworks each Fourth of July.
The tour bus was packed with teenage girls heading toward their next adventure.
I purchased a baby clown from the Russian terrorist black market.
Baby wipes are made of chocolate stardust.
I want more detailed information.
Sometimes it is better to just walk away from things and go back to them later when you’re in a better frame of mind.
He didn’t want to go to the dentist, yet he went anyway.
Barking dogs and screaming toddlers have the unique ability to turn friendly neighbors into cranky enemies.
Boulders lined the side of the road foretelling what could come next.
The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
He barked orders at his daughters but they just stared back with amusement.
One small action would change her life, but whether it would be for better or for worse was yet to be determined.
Twin 4-month-olds slept in the shade of the palm tree while the mother tanned in the sun.
They throw cabbage that turns your brain into emotional baggage.
Honestly, I didn't care much for the first season, so I didn't bother with the second.
The best part of marriage is animal crackers with peanut butter.
The chic gangster liked to start the day with a pink scarf.
Today is the day I'll finally know what brick tastes like.
It caught him off guard that space smelled of seared steak.
I made myself a peanut butter sandwich as I didn't want to subsist on veggie crackers.
He had reached the point where he was paranoid about being paranoid.
Peanuts don't grow on trees, but cashews do.
The most exciting eureka moment I've had was when I realized that the instructions on food packets were just guidelines.
I really want to go to work, but I am too sick to drive.
She had convinced her kids that any mushroom found on the ground would kill them if they touched it.
He played the game as if his life depended on it and the truth was that it did.
The virus had powers none of us knew existed.
She found his complete dullness interesting.
He ended up burning his fingers poking someone else's fire.
He hated that he loved what she hated about hate.
A suit of armor provides excellent sun protection on hot days.
He had unknowingly taken up sleepwalking as a nighttime hobby.
It must be five o'clock somewhere.
It took me too long to realize that the ceiling hadn't been painted to look like the sky.
The bullet pierced the window shattering it before missing Danny's head by mere millimeters.
Random words in front of other random words create a random sentence.
He figured a few sticks of dynamite were easier than a fishing pole to catch fish.
I want to buy a onesie… but know it won’t suit me.
The bees decided to have a mutiny against their queen.
She thought there'd be sufficient time if she hid her watch.
The ice-cream trucks bring back bad memories for all of us.
He strives to keep the best lawn in the neighborhood.
That was how he came to win $1 million.
Please wait outside of the house.
It didn't take long for Gary to detect the robbers were amateurs.
On each full moon
You can't compare apples and oranges, but what about bananas and plantains?
The child’s favorite Christmas gift was the large box her father’s lawnmower came in.
The delicious aroma from the kitchen was ruined by cigarette smoke.
The waves were crashing on the shore; it was a lovely sight.
The overpass went under the highway and into a secret world.
Today I heard something new and unmemorable.
Nobody loves a pig wearing lipstick.
Traveling became almost extinct during the pandemic.
She was the type of girl that always burnt sugar to show she cared.
The fact that there's a stairway to heaven and a highway to hell explains life well.
The efficiency we have at removing trash has made creating trash more acceptable.
Patricia loves the sound of nails strongly pressed against the chalkboard.
I only enjoy window shopping when the windows are transparent.
His thought process was on so many levels that he gave himself a phobia of heights.
It's much more difficult to play tennis with a bowling ball than it is to bowl with a tennis ball.
The skeleton had skeletons of his own in the closet.
He decided to live his life by the big beats manifesto.
He didn't understand why the bird wanted to ride the bicycle.
It had been sixteen days since the zombies first attacked.
I’m working on a sweet potato farm.
The lake is a long way from here.
Bill ran from the giraffe toward the dolphin.
There is no better feeling than staring at a wall with closed eyes.
The small white buoys marked the location of hundreds of crab pots.
The estate agent quickly marked out his territory on the dance floor.
Whenever he saw a red flag warning at the beach he grabbed his surfboard.
Joe discovered that traffic cones make excellent megaphones.
The truth is that you pay for your lifestyle in hours.
All they could see was the blue water surrounding their sailboat.
She tilted her head back and let whip cream stream into her mouth while taking a bath.
They called out her name time and again, but were met with nothing but silence.
There were a lot of paintings of monkeys waving bamboo sticks in the gallery.
She had the gift of being able to paint songs.
You're good at English when you know the difference between a man eating chicken and a man-eating chicken.
Today arrived with a crash of my car through the garage door.
Everything was going so well until I was accosted by a purple giraffe.
They say people remember important moments in their life well, yet no one even remembers their own birth.
He set out for a short walk, but now all he could see were mangroves and water were for miles.
The tart lemonade quenched her thirst, but not her longing.
The tattered work gloves speak of the many hours of hard labor he endured throughout his life.
He had accidentally hacked into his company's server.
He found the end of the rainbow and was surprised at what he found there.
The waitress was not amused when he ordered green eggs and ham.
The paintbrush was angry at the color the artist chose to use.
She was too short to see over the fence.
The blinking lights of the antenna tower came into focus just as I heard a loud snap.
Nancy was proud that she ran a tight shipwreck.
There's probably enough glass in my cupboard to build an undersea aquarium.
No matter how beautiful the sunset, it saddened her knowing she was one day older.
He was surprised that his immense laziness was inspirational to others.
Pantyhose and heels are an interesting choice of attire for the beach.
Each person who knows you has a different perception of who you are.
He decided water-skiing on a frozen lake wasn’t a good idea.
Courage and stupidity were all he had.
She had that tint of craziness in her soul that made her believe she could actually make a difference.
The beach was crowded with snow leopards.
Nothing is as cautiously cuddly as a pet porcupine.
A purple pig and a green donkey flew a kite in the middle of the night and ended up sunburnt.
She works two jobs to make ends meet; at least, that was her reason for not having time to join us.
He found the chocolate covered roaches quite tasty.
Siri became confused when we reused to follow her directions.
Two more days and all his problems would be solved.
I thought red would have felt warmer in summer but I didn't think about the equator.
The dead trees waited to be ignited by the smallest spark and seek their revenge.
You have every right to be angry, but that doesn't give you the right to be mean.
He picked up trash in his spare time to dump in his neighbor's yard.
At that moment I was the most fearsome weasel in the entire swamp.
He created a pig burger out of beef.
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.
He kept telling himself that one day it would all somehow make sense.
He told us a very exciting adventure story.
He went on a whiskey diet and immediately lost three days.
He waited for the stop sign to turn to a go sign.
While on the first date he accidentally hit his head on the beam.
The white water rafting trip was suddenly halted by the unexpected brick wall.
Normal activities took extraordinary amounts of concentration at the high altitude.
She saw the brake lights, but not in time.
Jason didn’t understand why his parents wouldn’t let him sell his little sister at the garage sale.
I became paranoid that the school of jellyfish was spying on me.
Their argument could be heard across the parking lot.
She cried diamonds.
Gwen had her best sleep ever on her new bed of nails.
The secret code they created made no sense, even to them.
It's not often you find a soggy banana on the street.
Buried deep in the snow, he hoped his batteries were fresh in his avalanche beacon.
The manager of the fruit stand always sat and only sold vegetables.
He always wore his sunglasses at night.
The sunblock was handed to the girl before practice, but the burned skin was proof she did not apply it.
The team members were hard to tell apart since they all wore their hair in a ponytail.
Lucifer was surprised at the amount of life at Death Valley.
Beach-combing replaced wine tasting as his new obsession.
Art doesn't have to be intentional.
She let the balloon float up into the air with her hopes and dreams.
The Guinea fowl flies through the air with all the grace of a turtle.
As he dangled from the rope deep inside the crevasse
For some unfathomable reason, the response team didn't consider a lack of milk for my cereal as a proper emergency.
The group quickly understood that toxic waste was the most effective barrier to use against the zombies.
Jeanne wished she has chosen the red button.
Acres of almond trees lined the interstate highway which complimented the crazy driving nuts.
He knew it was going to be a bad day when he saw mountain lions roaming the streets.
Purple is the best city in the forest.
We're careful about orange ping pong balls because people might think they're fruit.
As he waited for the shower to warm, he noticed that he could hear water change temperature.
Instead of a bachelorette party
She can live her life however she wants as long as she listens to what I have to say.
Mom didn’t understand why no one else wanted a hot tub full of jello.
As she walked along the street and looked in the gutter, she realized facemasks had become the new cigarette butts.
They did nothing as the raccoon attacked the lady’s bag of food.
The busker hoped that the people passing by would throw money, but they threw tomatoes instead, so he exchanged his hat for a juicer.
Even though he thought the world was flat he didn’t see the irony of wanting to travel around the world.
I come from a tribe of head-hunters, so I will never need a shrink.
I know many children ask for a pony, but I wanted a bicycle with rockets strapped to it.
I currently have 4 windows open up… and I don’t know why.
If you like tuna and tomato sauce, try combining the two, it’s really not as bad as it sounds.
People keep telling me "orange" but I still prefer "pink".
I'm not a party animal, but I do like animal parties.
In hopes of finding out the truth, he entered the one-room library.
The heat
Malls are great places to shop; I can find everything I need under one roof.
A quiet house is nice until you are ordered to stay in it for months.
The toddler’s endless tantrum caused the entire plane anxiety.
100 years old is such a young age if you happen to be a bristlecone pine.
The fish listened intently to what the frogs had to say.
The balloons floated away along with all my hopes and dreams.
Flesh-colored yoga pants were far worse than even he feared.
There was no telling what thoughts would come from the machine.
Now I need to ponder my existence and ask myself if I'm truly real
Thirty years later, she still thought it was okay to put the toilet paper roll under rather than over.
It took him a month to finish the meal.
Pat ordered a ghost pepper pie.
My Mum tries to be cool by saying that she likes all the same things that I do.
Don't put peanut butter on the dog's nose.
Douglas figured the best way to succeed was to do the opposite of what he'd been doing all his life.
Tuesdays are free if you bring a gnome costume.
She traveled because it cost the same as therapy and was a lot more enjoyable.
The trick to getting kids to eat anything is to put catchup on it.
I received a heavy fine but it failed to crush my spirit.
Two seats were vacant.
Don't step on the broken glass.
Had he known what was going to happen, he would have never stepped into the shower.
I was fishing for compliments and accidentally caught a trout.
The wake behind the boat told of the past while the open sea for told life in the unknown future.
She looked at the masterpiece hanging in the museum but all she could think is that her five-year-old could do better.
She was the type of girl who wanted to live in a pink house.
The snow-covered path was no help in finding his way out of the back-country.
The old rusted farm equipment surrounded the house predicting its demise.
Greetings from the galaxy MACS0647-JD, or what we call home.
After coating myself in vegetable oil I found my success rate skyrocketed.
She wondered what his eyes were saying beneath his mirrored sunglasses.
I want a giraffe, but I'm a turtle eating waffles.
The old apple revels in its authority.
When transplanting seedlings, candied teapots will make the task easier.
He had decided to accept his fate of accepting his fate.
He went back to the video to see what had been recorded and was shocked at what he saw.
He would only survive if he kept the fire going and he could hear thunder in the distance.
Mary plays the piano.
The gruff old man sat in the back of the bait shop grumbling to himself as he scooped out a handful of worms.
He spiked his hair green to support his iguana.
The spa attendant applied the deep cleaning mask to the gentleman’s back.
You're unsure whether or not to trust him, but very thankful that you wore a turtle neck.
He quietly entered the museum as the super bowl started.
It was a slippery slope and he was willing to slide all the way to the deepest depths.
The knives were out and she was sharpening hers.
Her scream silenced the rowdy teenagers.
You realize you're not alone as you sit in your bedroom massaging your calves after a long day of playing tug-of-war with Grandpa Joe in the hospital.
Sometimes I stare at a door or a wall and I wonder what is this reality, why am I alive, and what is this all about?
She wanted to be rescued, but only if it was Tuesday and raining.
Little Red Riding Hood decided to wear orange today.
25 years later, she still regretted that specific moment.
It was the scarcity that fueled his creativity.
To the surprise of everyone, the Rapture happened yesterday but it didn't quite go as expected.
It was always dangerous to drive with him since he insisted the safety cones were a slalom course.
The thunderous roar of the jet overhead confirmed her worst fears.
The efficiency with which he paired the socks in the drawer was quite admirable.
Shakespeare was a famous 17th-century diesel mechanic.
When he had to picnic on the beach, he purposely put sand in other people’s food.
The elderly neighborhood became enraged over the coyotes who had been blamed for the poodle’s disappearance.
When money was tight, he'd get his lunch money from the local wishing well.
It must be easy to commit crimes as a snake because you don't have to worry about leaving fingerprints.
We will not allow you to bring your pet armadillo along.
Edith could decide if she should paint her teeth or brush her nails.
Nudist colonies shun fig-leaf couture.
The mysterious diary records the voice.
Today we gathered moss for my uncle's wedding.
He is no James Bond; his name is Roger Moore.
She moved forward only because she trusted that the ending she now was going through must be followed by a new beginning.
Tomorrow will bring something new, so leave today as a memory.
Nancy decided to make the porta-potty her home.
The crowd yells and screams for more memes.
The random sentence generator generated a random sentence about a random sentence.
She could hear him in the shower singing with a joy she hoped he'd retain after she delivered the news.
Even with the snow falling outside, she felt it appropriate to wear her bikini.
The door swung open to reveal pink giraffes and red elephants.
He excelled at firing people nicely.
The sign said there was road work ahead so he decided to speed up.
Henry couldn't decide if he was an auto mechanic or a priest.
Imagine his surprise when he discovered that the safe was full of pudding.
She had a difficult time owning up to her own crazy self.
For the 216th time, he said he would quit drinking soda after this last Coke.
Before he moved to the inner city, he had always believed that security complexes were psychological.
Fluffy pink unicorns are a popular status symbol among macho men.
She couldn't understand why nobody else could see that the sky is full of cotton candy.
I've traveled all around Africa and still haven't found the gnu who stole my scarf.
I trust everything that's written in purple ink.
The shooter says goodbye to his love.
He found his art never progressed when he literally used his sweat and tears.
With the high wind warning
Jerry liked to look at paintings while eating garlic ice cream.
You've been eyeing me all day and waiting for your move like a lion stalking a gazelle in a savannah.
The pet shop stocks everything you need to keep your anaconda happy.
He had concluded that pigs must be able to fly in Hog Heaven.
My biggest joy is roasting almonds while stalking prey.
They decided to plant an orchard of cotton candy.
Improve your goldfish's physical fitness by getting him a bicycle.
Written warnings in instruction manuals are worthless since rabbits can't read.
She lived on Monkey Jungle Road and that seemed to explain all of her strangeness.
She hadn't had her cup of coffee, and that made things all the worse.
I used to live in my neighbor's fishpond, but the aesthetic wasn't to my taste.
Most shark attacks occur about 10 feet from the beach since that's where the people are.